VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineAfter the master image virtual machine (VM) is created, but before you convert it into a published image in Horizon Cloud, you customize the VM's guest Windows operating system (OS) to install and configure the things you want and need in the image. Horizon CloudIn addition to following the steps in the topics below according to the master image's specific operating system, it is recommended that you also apply the following best practices before converting the master image to a published, sealed image. These best practices can help you avoid encountering issues that can typically occur during the sealing process, especially those related to the Windows System Preparation (sysprep) process. To avoid known sysprep errors from potentially occurring during the publishing process, prior to starting the publishing workflow, remove the Microsoft Windows appx packages as described in VMware KB 2079196, Microsoft KB 2769827, and Microsoft MVP article 615. For Windows 10, run the AppX removal steps under all accounts, removing the same apps from each and every account. Do not delete accounts or profiles from the master image until you have run the AppX removal steps for every account. To avoid known sysprep errors from potentially occurring during the publishing process, prior to starting the publishing workflow, remove the Microsoft Windows appx packages as described in VMware KB 2079196, Microsoft KB 2769827, and Microsoft MVP article 615. For Windows 10, run the AppX removal steps under all accounts, removing the same apps from each and every account. Do not delete accounts or profiles from the master image until you have run the AppX removal steps for every account. appxVMware KB 2079196Microsoft KB 2769827Microsoft MVP article 615Download the VMware OS Optimization Tool (OSOT) fling and use it to optimize the master image's Windows operating system. The OSOT is available at https://labs.vmware.com/flings/vmware-os-optimization-tool. You might also find helpful the information in the VMware Windows Operating System Optimization Tool Guide. Even though that guide is written in the context of other VMware virtual desktop products and includes mention of Windows operating system other than those supported in your Horizon Cloud environment, it provides details on how to use the OSOT. Download the VMware OS Optimization Tool (OSOT) fling and use it to optimize the master image's Windows operating system. The OSOT is available at https://labs.vmware.com/flings/vmware-os-optimization-tool. You might also find helpful the information in the VMware Windows Operating System Optimization Tool Guide. Even though that guide is written in the context of other VMware virtual desktop products and includes mention of Windows operating system other than those supported in your Horizon Cloud environment, it provides details on how to use the OSOT. https://labs.vmware.com/flings/vmware-os-optimization-toolVMware Windows Operating System Optimization Tool GuideHorizon CloudCustomize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual MachineAfter the master image virtual machine (VM) for a VDI desktop is created, but before converting it into a published image in Horizon Cloud, you customize the guest Windows operating system (OS) to install and configure all of the things you want to have in your end users' VDI desktops. At this time, you install all of the third-party applications you want available in the VDI desktops. Also at this time, you perform any other customizations in the Windows guest operating system, such as installing special drivers required by your organization's needs, applying wallpaper, setting default colors and fonts, configuring taskbar settings, and other such OS-level items. Customize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual MachineCustomize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual MachineHorizon CloudCustomize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual MachineAfter the master server image virtual machine (VM) is created, but before converting it into a published image in Horizon Cloud, you customize the guest Windows server operating system (OS) to install and configure all of the things you want to have in your end users' RDS desktops. At this time, you install all of the third-party applications you want available in the RDS desktops or available for assignment as remote applications. Also at this time, you perform any other customizations in the Windows guest operating system, such as installing special drivers required by your organization's needs, applying wallpaper, setting default colors and fonts, configuring taskbar settings, and other such OS-level items. Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual MachineCustomize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual MachineHorizon CloudParent topic:Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureVMware, Inc x 