VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou create farms using the Farms page. About this taskNote:The RDS-enabled image is also referred to as an RDS host or an RDSH (Remote Desktop Services Host) image. For an example of how rolling maintenance works for a farm, see Example of Farm Rolling Maintenance. Example of Farm Rolling MaintenancePrerequisitesVerify that you have at least one image listed on the Images page, that image has an RDS-enabled Windows server operating system, the Images page shows that image is in Published state, and that image is located in the node in which you want to create the farm. You cannot create a farm in a node without such an image available in that node. Decide whether this farm will serve session-based desktops or remote applications. In this release, the same farm cannot serve both. ProcedureIn the Administration Console, navigate to Inventory > Farms. In the Administration Console, navigate to Inventory > Farms. Inventory > FarmsInventoryFarmsClick New. The New Farm wizard opens. Click New. NewThe New Farm wizard opens. In the wizard's Definition step, complete the fields and make your selections as appropriate and then click Next. Note: You might have to use the scroll bar to see all of the required fields. Option Description Name Enter a name for this farm. Description Enter an optional description. VM Names Name for all of the server VMs created for this farm, which will have a number appended to it, for example, win2016-1, win2016-2, etc. The name must start with a letter and can contain only letters, dashes, and numbers. Farm Type Specify the type of asset this farm will provide to end users: Select Desktops to use this farm to provide session-based desktops. Select Applications to use this farm to provide access to remote applications. After an applications farm is created, you can use the New Application workflow's Auto-scan from Farm option to import applications from the farm's servers into your application inventory. Location Select the location associated with the node that has the RDSH image. This selection filters the choices in the Node field to only the nodes in the selected location. Node Select the node. Server Model Select the server model to use for the farm's server instances. The server model defines the set of underlying resources that will be used when the farm's server instances are created, in terms of capacity (compute, storage, and so on). The available choices map to standard VM sizes that are available in Microsoft Azure. Image Select the assignable RDSH image. Preferred Protocol Select a default display protocol you want the end user sessions to use. Circumstances might occur that cause another protocol to be used instead of the default protocol. For example, the client device does not support the default protocol or the end user overrides the default protocol selection. Preferred Client Type Select the preferred client type used when end users launch their session-based desktops from the Workspace™ ONE™ platform's portal, either a Horizon Client or a browser for HTML Access. Domain Select the Active Directory domain registered with your environment. Join Domain Select Yes so that the farm's server instances are automatically joined the domain when they are created. Min Servers Max Servers Specify the minimum number and maximum number of servers you want in this farm. When the farm is first created, the system deploys the number of servers specified in the Max Servers field, and then powers off the servers except the number specified for Min Servers. Only the minimum number of server instances is initially powered on. As end user demand increases, the system powers on additional servers, up to the Max Servers number. Then as end user demand shrinks, the system powers off the servers, until it reaches the Min Servers number of servers. A server must be completely empty of user sessions before the system will power it off. When you specify zero (0) for Min Servers, it indicates that you want the system to power off all of the farm's servers when there is no end user demand for sessions to the farm. When you enter zero (0) for Min Servers, the First Server Empty Duration field appears. Use the First Server Empty Duration field to specify the amount of time you want the system to wait after determining the remaining powered-on server has no user sessions before the system powers off that server. Sessions per Server Specify the number of concurrent end user sessions per server that this farm will allow. Important: In this release, you cannot update this number after the farm is created. As a result, you must choose judiciously the value you select here. For a node in Microsoft Azure, based on performance testing of user densities, VMware recommends the following maximums. For details about these recommendations and the analysis behind them, see the VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalability white paper located here in vmware.com. Small (D2V2): 26 concurrent sessions for task workers; 20 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Medium (D3V2): 50 concurrent sessions for task workers; 30 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Large (D4V2): 85 concurrent sessions for task workers; 60 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. GPU (NV6): 34 sessions approximately (number has a dependency on the types of GPU workloads you plan to run) Note: Due to an NVIDIA driver limitation, if your GPU-enabled master image has Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 for its operating system, a farm using that image for its servers is limited to 20 sessions maximum per server. If you have that particular combination (image with GPU, Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2, NVIDIA drivers and an NV-series server model), do not specify more than 20 here. Recommended maximums for farms based on the NV12 and NV24 types are not yet available. Optionally configure the advanced properties. Option Description Computer OU Active Directory Organizational Unit where the server VMs are to be located. For example, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=eng, and so on. The entries must be comma-separated with no spaces in between. If you need to use nested Organization Units, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units Run Once Script (Optional) Location of a script that you want run in the farm's server VMs after the VM creation process. Note: The script should end with a reboot step to reboot the VM. A sample reboot line as a Windows command is: shutdown /r /t 0 The script is run after the sysprep process. When the system creates a server VM for the farm, the VM boots up and completes the sysprep process in the Windows operating system. When the sysprep process completes, the agent in the VM reaches out to do the domain join. At the same time, the agent gets the script path you specify here. The agent sets the Windows RunOnce path (System run once) and then restarts the server VM. On the next restart, the system logs in to the Windows operating system using the local administrator account and runs the script. In the wizard's Definition step, complete the fields and make your selections as appropriate and then click Next. NextNote:You might have to use the scroll bar to see all of the required fields. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionNameNameEnter a name for this farm.Enter a name for this farm.DescriptionDescriptionEnter an optional description.Enter an optional description.VM NamesVM NamesName for all of the server VMs created for this farm, which will have a number appended to it, for example, win2016-1, win2016-2, etc. The name must start with a letter and can contain only letters, dashes, and numbers.Name for all of the server VMs created for this farm, which will have a number appended to it, for example, win2016-1, win2016-2, etc. The name must start with a letter and can contain only letters, dashes, and numbers.Farm TypeFarm TypeSpecify the type of asset this farm will provide to end users: Select Desktops to use this farm to provide session-based desktops. Select Applications to use this farm to provide access to remote applications. After an applications farm is created, you can use the New Application workflow's Auto-scan from Farm option to import applications from the farm's servers into your application inventory. Specify the type of asset this farm will provide to end users: Select Desktops to use this farm to provide session-based desktops. Select Desktops to use this farm to provide session-based desktops. DesktopsSelect Applications to use this farm to provide access to remote applications. After an applications farm is created, you can use the New Application workflow's Auto-scan from Farm option to import applications from the farm's servers into your application inventory. Select Applications to use this farm to provide access to remote applications. After an applications farm is created, you can use the New Application workflow's Auto-scan from Farm option to import applications from the farm's servers into your application inventory. ApplicationsAuto-scan from FarmLocationLocationSelect the location associated with the node that has the RDSH image. This selection filters the choices in the Node field to only the nodes in the selected location.Select the location associated with the node that has the RDSH image. This selection filters the choices in the Node field to only the nodes in the selected location.NodeNodeNodeSelect the node.Select the node.Server ModelServer ModelSelect the server model to use for the farm's server instances. The server model defines the set of underlying resources that will be used when the farm's server instances are created, in terms of capacity (compute, storage, and so on). The available choices map to standard VM sizes that are available in Microsoft Azure.Select the server model to use for the farm's server instances. The server model defines the set of underlying resources that will be used when the farm's server instances are created, in terms of capacity (compute, storage, and so on). The available choices map to standard VM sizes that are available in Microsoft Azure.ImageImageSelect the assignable RDSH image.Select the assignable RDSH image.Preferred ProtocolPreferred ProtocolSelect a default display protocol you want the end user sessions to use. Circumstances might occur that cause another protocol to be used instead of the default protocol. For example, the client device does not support the default protocol or the end user overrides the default protocol selection. Select a default display protocol you want the end user sessions to use. Circumstances might occur that cause another protocol to be used instead of the default protocol. For example, the client device does not support the default protocol or the end user overrides the default protocol selection. Preferred Client TypePreferred Client TypeSelect the preferred client type used when end users launch their session-based desktops from the Workspace™ ONE™ platform's portal, either a Horizon Client or a browser for HTML Access. Select the preferred client type used when end users launch their session-based desktops from the Workspace™ ONE™ platform's portal, either a Horizon Client or a browser for HTML Access. DomainDomainSelect the Active Directory domain registered with your environment.Select the Active Directory domain registered with your environment.Join DomainJoin DomainSelect Yes so that the farm's server instances are automatically joined the domain when they are created.Select Yes so that the farm's server instances are automatically joined the domain when they are created.YesMin Servers Max Servers Min Servers Max Servers Specify the minimum number and maximum number of servers you want in this farm. When the farm is first created, the system deploys the number of servers specified in the Max Servers field, and then powers off the servers except the number specified for Min Servers. Only the minimum number of server instances is initially powered on. As end user demand increases, the system powers on additional servers, up to the Max Servers number. Then as end user demand shrinks, the system powers off the servers, until it reaches the Min Servers number of servers. A server must be completely empty of user sessions before the system will power it off. When you specify zero (0) for Min Servers, it indicates that you want the system to power off all of the farm's servers when there is no end user demand for sessions to the farm. When you enter zero (0) for Min Servers, the First Server Empty Duration field appears. Use the First Server Empty Duration field to specify the amount of time you want the system to wait after determining the remaining powered-on server has no user sessions before the system powers off that server. Specify the minimum number and maximum number of servers you want in this farm. When the farm is first created, the system deploys the number of servers specified in the Max Servers field, and then powers off the servers except the number specified for Min Servers. Max ServersMin ServersOnly the minimum number of server instances is initially powered on. As end user demand increases, the system powers on additional servers, up to the Max Servers number. Then as end user demand shrinks, the system powers off the servers, until it reaches the Min Servers number of servers. A server must be completely empty of user sessions before the system will power it off. Max ServersMin ServersWhen you specify zero (0) for Min Servers, it indicates that you want the system to power off all of the farm's servers when there is no end user demand for sessions to the farm. When you enter zero (0) for Min Servers, the First Server Empty Duration field appears. Use the First Server Empty Duration field to specify the amount of time you want the system to wait after determining the remaining powered-on server has no user sessions before the system powers off that server. Min ServersMin ServersFirst Server Empty DurationFirst Server Empty DurationSessions per ServerSessions per ServerSpecify the number of concurrent end user sessions per server that this farm will allow. Important: In this release, you cannot update this number after the farm is created. As a result, you must choose judiciously the value you select here. For a node in Microsoft Azure, based on performance testing of user densities, VMware recommends the following maximums. For details about these recommendations and the analysis behind them, see the VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalability white paper located here in vmware.com. Small (D2V2): 26 concurrent sessions for task workers; 20 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Medium (D3V2): 50 concurrent sessions for task workers; 30 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Large (D4V2): 85 concurrent sessions for task workers; 60 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. GPU (NV6): 34 sessions approximately (number has a dependency on the types of GPU workloads you plan to run) Note: Due to an NVIDIA driver limitation, if your GPU-enabled master image has Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 for its operating system, a farm using that image for its servers is limited to 20 sessions maximum per server. If you have that particular combination (image with GPU, Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2, NVIDIA drivers and an NV-series server model), do not specify more than 20 here. Recommended maximums for farms based on the NV12 and NV24 types are not yet available. Specify the number of concurrent end user sessions per server that this farm will allow. Important:In this release, you cannot update this number after the farm is created. As a result, you must choose judiciously the value you select here. For a node in Microsoft Azure, based on performance testing of user densities, VMware recommends the following maximums. For details about these recommendations and the analysis behind them, see the VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalability white paper located here in vmware.com. For details about these recommendations and the analysis behind them, see the VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalability white paper located here in vmware.com. VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalabilityhere in vmware.comSmall (D2V2): 26 concurrent sessions for task workers; 20 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Small (D2V2): 26 concurrent sessions for task workers; 20 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Small (D2V2)Medium (D3V2): 50 concurrent sessions for task workers; 30 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Medium (D3V2): 50 concurrent sessions for task workers; 30 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Medium (D3V2)Large (D4V2): 85 concurrent sessions for task workers; 60 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Large (D4V2): 85 concurrent sessions for task workers; 60 concurrent sessions for knowledge workers. Large (D4V2)GPU (NV6): 34 sessions approximately (number has a dependency on the types of GPU workloads you plan to run) GPU (NV6): 34 sessions approximately (number has a dependency on the types of GPU workloads you plan to run) GPU (NV6)Note:Due to an NVIDIA driver limitation, if your GPU-enabled master image has Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 for its operating system, a farm using that image for its servers is limited to 20 sessions maximum per server. If you have that particular combination (image with GPU, Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2, NVIDIA drivers and an NV-series server model), do not specify more than 20 here. Due to an NVIDIA driver limitation, if your GPU-enabled master image has Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 for its operating system, a farm using that image for its servers is limited to 20 sessions maximum per server. If you have that particular combination (image with GPU, Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2, NVIDIA drivers and an NV-series server model), do not specify more than 20 here. Recommended maximums for farms based on the NV12 and NV24 types are not yet available. Recommended maximums for farms based on the NV12 and NV24 types are not yet available. Optionally configure the advanced properties. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionComputer OUComputer OUActive Directory Organizational Unit where the server VMs are to be located. For example, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=eng, and so on. The entries must be comma-separated with no spaces in between. If you need to use nested Organization Units, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units Active Directory Organizational Unit where the server VMs are to be located. For example, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=eng, and so on. The entries must be comma-separated with no spaces in between. OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=engIf you need to use nested Organization Units, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational UnitsRun Once ScriptRun Once ScriptNote:The script should end with a reboot step to reboot the VM. A sample reboot line as a Windows command is: shutdown /r /t 0The script is run after the sysprep process. When the system creates a server VM for the farm, the VM boots up and completes the sysprep process in the Windows operating system. When the sysprep process completes, the agent in the VM reaches out to do the domain join. At the same time, the agent gets the script path you specify here. The agent sets the Windows RunOnce path (System run once) and then restarts the server VM. On the next restart, the system logs in to the Windows operating system using the local administrator account and runs the script. sysprepsysprepWindows RunOnceSystem run onceIn the wizard's Management step, complete the fields and make your selections as appropriate and then click Next. Option Description Rolling Maintenance Select the maintenance type, either according to a time cadence (Scheduled) or based on user sessions to this farm's servers (Session). When Scheduled is selected, configure the maintenance cadence, either daily or weekly. If you choose a daily recurrence, specify the hour at which the maintenance will start. If you choose a weekly recurrence, specify both the day of the week and the hour. When Session is selected, specify the number of sessions at which the farm should begin rolling maintenance. Note: Sessions which are logged off within 15 minutes are not counted for the purposes of the rolling maintenance calculations, to prevent restarting or rebuilding the servers based on a count of short running sessions. In the Concurrent Quiescing Servers field, specify the number of servers that can be in the quiescing state at the same time. When a server is in quiescing state, the server continues to work for the user sessions already connected to that server, but it does not accept any new user connections. For a simple example, see Example of Farm Rolling Maintenance. Server Action Select the action that the system should perform on the servers undergoing maintenance. With Restart, the server VMs are restarted. With Rebuild, the server VMs are first deleted and then reprovisioned from their RDS desktop image. If you choose to have the unused servers powered off, they will still consume some storage use in your cloud environment. Power Management These power management settings are related to the thresholds at which the system automatically grows and shrinks the number of powered-on server instances in the farm according to the session usage on the servers. When the usage grows above an upper bound, the system automatically powers up a new server instance. When the usage shrinks below a lower bound, the system drains the server until it is not being used. Then the system shuts down the server VM and deallocates it. The power management selections balance capacity cost with faster availability: Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next server instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next server ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users log in, the server is already powered up to meet that demand. Select Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next server instance. The occupancy of the servers are higher before the system powers up the next server. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing servers, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on the server. Select Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. The low and high thresholds for each selection are: Optimized Performance Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% Optimized Power Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% Balanced Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% For an in-depth description about the power management features of Horizon Cloud and descriptions of how they work in various scenarios, see the VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalability white paper located here in vmware.com. Timeout Handling Configure how you want the system to handle certain types of user sessions. Note: The user sessions governed by these settings are the user logins to the Windows operating system session of the RDS session desktop or application. These sessions are not the user logins in Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, or Workspace ONE. The user's session begins when the user authenticates to the Windows operating system that underlies the session-based desktop or the remote application that is served from this farm's servers. Empty Session Timeout - For applications farms, select how the system should handle idle user sessions, whether to never timeout idle sessions or to timeout after a specified number of minutes. Idle timeouts are based on the activity on the endpoint device, not on the session-based desktop or application. If you specify to timeout an idle session, select what happens when the timeout period is up: whether to disconnect the session or log the user off. When a session is disconnected, the session is disconnected from the network and preserved in memory. When a session is logged off, the session is not preserved in memory, and any unsaved documents are lost. Log Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system logs the user off of a disconnected session. Max Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Session Timeout Interval This is the amount of time the end users' sessions can be idle before the system forces a log off from the session-based desktops or applications that are served by this farm. This timeout applies to the logged-in session to the underlying Windows operating system. This timeout interval is separate from the timeout settings that govern the end users' Horizon Client or HTML Access logged-in session. Caution: When the system forces the log off in the underlying Windows operating system session, any unsaved data is lost. To prevent an unintended loss of data, set this interval high enough to accommodate the business needs of your end users. The default interval is one day (1440 minutes). Note: If no user activity occurs before the timeout interval is reached, a message indicates that the user will be logged off if they do not click OK in the next 30 seconds. If the logoff occurs, any unsaved user data, such as documents or files, is lost. Schedule Power Management To help optimize savings and performance of the farm's server VMs in Microsoft Azure, you can optionally configure schedules to adjust the minimum number of powered-on servers in this farm on a recurring weekly basis. For example: For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops or remote applications, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on servers. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on servers to be available to meet that demand. You can specify up to 10 schedules for the farm. If any schedules have overlapping time periods but specify different minimum server numbers, the system uses the largest value of minimum servers for the overlapping time period. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Select the days for the first schedule. Note: One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note: If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. In the Min Servers field, type the minimum number of servers you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of servers at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Servers for the farm. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the farm's servers are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop or application served by this farm during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop or application is in a usable state because the underlying server VM has to power on. In the wizard's Management step, complete the fields and make your selections as appropriate and then click Next. NextOptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionRolling MaintenanceRolling MaintenanceSelect the maintenance type, either according to a time cadence (Scheduled) or based on user sessions to this farm's servers (Session). When Scheduled is selected, configure the maintenance cadence, either daily or weekly. If you choose a daily recurrence, specify the hour at which the maintenance will start. If you choose a weekly recurrence, specify both the day of the week and the hour. When Session is selected, specify the number of sessions at which the farm should begin rolling maintenance. Note: Sessions which are logged off within 15 minutes are not counted for the purposes of the rolling maintenance calculations, to prevent restarting or rebuilding the servers based on a count of short running sessions. In the Concurrent Quiescing Servers field, specify the number of servers that can be in the quiescing state at the same time. When a server is in quiescing state, the server continues to work for the user sessions already connected to that server, but it does not accept any new user connections. For a simple example, see Example of Farm Rolling Maintenance. Select the maintenance type, either according to a time cadence (Scheduled) or based on user sessions to this farm's servers (Session). ScheduledSessionWhen Scheduled is selected, configure the maintenance cadence, either daily or weekly. If you choose a daily recurrence, specify the hour at which the maintenance will start. If you choose a weekly recurrence, specify both the day of the week and the hour. ScheduledWhen Session is selected, specify the number of sessions at which the farm should begin rolling maintenance. SessionNote:Sessions which are logged off within 15 minutes are not counted for the purposes of the rolling maintenance calculations, to prevent restarting or rebuilding the servers based on a count of short running sessions. In the Concurrent Quiescing Servers field, specify the number of servers that can be in the quiescing state at the same time. When a server is in quiescing state, the server continues to work for the user sessions already connected to that server, but it does not accept any new user connections. Concurrent Quiescing ServersFor a simple example, see Example of Farm Rolling Maintenance. Example of Farm Rolling MaintenanceServer ActionServer ActionSelect the action that the system should perform on the servers undergoing maintenance. With Restart, the server VMs are restarted. With Rebuild, the server VMs are first deleted and then reprovisioned from their RDS desktop image. If you choose to have the unused servers powered off, they will still consume some storage use in your cloud environment. Select the action that the system should perform on the servers undergoing maintenance. With Restart, the server VMs are restarted. With Restart, the server VMs are restarted. RestartWith Rebuild, the server VMs are first deleted and then reprovisioned from their RDS desktop image. With Rebuild, the server VMs are first deleted and then reprovisioned from their RDS desktop image. RebuildIf you choose to have the unused servers powered off, they will still consume some storage use in your cloud environment. Power ManagementPower ManagementThese power management settings are related to the thresholds at which the system automatically grows and shrinks the number of powered-on server instances in the farm according to the session usage on the servers. When the usage grows above an upper bound, the system automatically powers up a new server instance. When the usage shrinks below a lower bound, the system drains the server until it is not being used. Then the system shuts down the server VM and deallocates it. The power management selections balance capacity cost with faster availability: Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next server instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next server ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users log in, the server is already powered up to meet that demand. Select Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next server instance. The occupancy of the servers are higher before the system powers up the next server. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing servers, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on the server. Select Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. The low and high thresholds for each selection are: Optimized Performance Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% Optimized Power Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% Balanced Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% For an in-depth description about the power management features of Horizon Cloud and descriptions of how they work in various scenarios, see the VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalability white paper located here in vmware.com. These power management settings are related to the thresholds at which the system automatically grows and shrinks the number of powered-on server instances in the farm according to the session usage on the servers. When the usage grows above an upper bound, the system automatically powers up a new server instance. When the usage shrinks below a lower bound, the system drains the server until it is not being used. Then the system shuts down the server VM and deallocates it. The power management selections balance capacity cost with faster availability: Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next server instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next server ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users log in, the server is already powered up to meet that demand. Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next server instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next server ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users log in, the server is already powered up to meet that demand. Optimized PerformanceSelect Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next server instance. The occupancy of the servers are higher before the system powers up the next server. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing servers, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on the server. Select Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next server instance. The occupancy of the servers are higher before the system powers up the next server. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing servers, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on the server. Optimized PowerSelect Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. Select Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. BalancedThe low and high thresholds for each selection are: Optimized Performance Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% Optimized Performance Optimized PerformanceLow threshold: 23% Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% High threshold: 50% Optimized Power Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% Optimized Power Optimized PowerLow threshold: 38% Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% High threshold: 80% Balanced Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% Balanced BalancedLow threshold: 31% Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% High threshold: 66% For an in-depth description about the power management features of Horizon Cloud and descriptions of how they work in various scenarios, see the VMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalability white paper located here in vmware.com. Horizon CloudVMware Horizon Cloud Service™ on Microsoft Azure RDS Desktop and Application Scalabilityhere in vmware.comTimeout HandlingTimeout HandlingConfigure how you want the system to handle certain types of user sessions. Note: The user sessions governed by these settings are the user logins to the Windows operating system session of the RDS session desktop or application. These sessions are not the user logins in Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, or Workspace ONE. The user's session begins when the user authenticates to the Windows operating system that underlies the session-based desktop or the remote application that is served from this farm's servers. Empty Session Timeout - For applications farms, select how the system should handle idle user sessions, whether to never timeout idle sessions or to timeout after a specified number of minutes. Idle timeouts are based on the activity on the endpoint device, not on the session-based desktop or application. If you specify to timeout an idle session, select what happens when the timeout period is up: whether to disconnect the session or log the user off. When a session is disconnected, the session is disconnected from the network and preserved in memory. When a session is logged off, the session is not preserved in memory, and any unsaved documents are lost. Log Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system logs the user off of a disconnected session. Max Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Configure how you want the system to handle certain types of user sessions. Note:The user sessions governed by these settings are the user logins to the Windows operating system session of the RDS session desktop or application. These sessions are not the user logins in Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, or Workspace ONE. Horizon ClientHorizon HTML AccessWorkspace ONEThe user's session begins when the user authenticates to the Windows operating system that underlies the session-based desktop or the remote application that is served from this farm's servers. Empty Session Timeout - For applications farms, select how the system should handle idle user sessions, whether to never timeout idle sessions or to timeout after a specified number of minutes. Idle timeouts are based on the activity on the endpoint device, not on the session-based desktop or application. If you specify to timeout an idle session, select what happens when the timeout period is up: whether to disconnect the session or log the user off. When a session is disconnected, the session is disconnected from the network and preserved in memory. When a session is logged off, the session is not preserved in memory, and any unsaved documents are lost. Empty Session Timeout - For applications farms, select how the system should handle idle user sessions, whether to never timeout idle sessions or to timeout after a specified number of minutes. Idle timeouts are based on the activity on the endpoint device, not on the session-based desktop or application. If you specify to timeout an idle session, select what happens when the timeout period is up: whether to disconnect the session or log the user off. When a session is disconnected, the session is disconnected from the network and preserved in memory. When a session is logged off, the session is not preserved in memory, and any unsaved documents are lost. Empty Session TimeoutLog Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system logs the user off of a disconnected session. Log Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system logs the user off of a disconnected session. Log Off Disconnected SessionsMax Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Max Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Max Session LifetimeSession Timeout IntervalSession Timeout IntervalThis is the amount of time the end users' sessions can be idle before the system forces a log off from the session-based desktops or applications that are served by this farm. This timeout applies to the logged-in session to the underlying Windows operating system. This timeout interval is separate from the timeout settings that govern the end users' Horizon Client or HTML Access logged-in session. Caution: When the system forces the log off in the underlying Windows operating system session, any unsaved data is lost. To prevent an unintended loss of data, set this interval high enough to accommodate the business needs of your end users. The default interval is one day (1440 minutes). Note: If no user activity occurs before the timeout interval is reached, a message indicates that the user will be logged off if they do not click OK in the next 30 seconds. If the logoff occurs, any unsaved user data, such as documents or files, is lost. This is the amount of time the end users' sessions can be idle before the system forces a log off from the session-based desktops or applications that are served by this farm. This timeout applies to the logged-in session to the underlying Windows operating system. This timeout interval is separate from the timeout settings that govern the end users' Horizon Client or HTML Access logged-in session. Caution:When the system forces the log off in the underlying Windows operating system session, any unsaved data is lost. To prevent an unintended loss of data, set this interval high enough to accommodate the business needs of your end users. The default interval is one day (1440 minutes). Note:If no user activity occurs before the timeout interval is reached, a message indicates that the user will be logged off if they do not click OK in the next 30 seconds. If the logoff occurs, any unsaved user data, such as documents or files, is lost. OKSchedule Power ManagementSchedule Power ManagementTo help optimize savings and performance of the farm's server VMs in Microsoft Azure, you can optionally configure schedules to adjust the minimum number of powered-on servers in this farm on a recurring weekly basis. For example: For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops or remote applications, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on servers. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on servers to be available to meet that demand. You can specify up to 10 schedules for the farm. If any schedules have overlapping time periods but specify different minimum server numbers, the system uses the largest value of minimum servers for the overlapping time period. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Select the days for the first schedule. Note: One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note: If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. In the Min Servers field, type the minimum number of servers you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of servers at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Servers for the farm. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the farm's servers are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop or application served by this farm during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop or application is in a usable state because the underlying server VM has to power on. To help optimize savings and performance of the farm's server VMs in Microsoft Azure, you can optionally configure schedules to adjust the minimum number of powered-on servers in this farm on a recurring weekly basis. For example: For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops or remote applications, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on servers. For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops or remote applications, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on servers. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on servers to be available to meet that demand. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on servers to be available to meet that demand. You can specify up to 10 schedules for the farm. If any schedules have overlapping time periods but specify different minimum server numbers, the system uses the largest value of minimum servers for the overlapping time period. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Select the days for the first schedule. Note: One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Select the days for the first schedule. Note:One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. All DaySpecify start and end times for the time period in each day Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note: If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note:If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. Europe/LondonAmerica/TorontoIn the Min Servers field, type the minimum number of servers you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of servers at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Servers for the farm. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the farm's servers are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop or application served by this farm during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop or application is in a usable state because the underlying server VM has to power on. In the Min Servers field, type the minimum number of servers you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of servers at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Servers for the farm. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the farm's servers are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop or application served by this farm during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop or application is in a usable state because the underlying server VM has to power on. Min ServersMax ServersIn the wizard's Summary step, review the settings and then click Submit to begin creating the farm. In the wizard's Summary step, review the settings and then click Submit to begin creating the farm. SubmitResultsThe system starts creating the farm. You can monitor the progress using the Activity page. When the farm's status shows a green dot on the Farms page: If you created a desktops farm, you can use it to create a session-based desktop assignment. If you created a desktops farm, you can use it to create a session-based desktop assignment. If you created an applications farm, you can use it to load applications from the servers' underlying RDS-enabled operating system into your Horizon Cloud applications catalog. If you created an applications farm, you can use it to load applications from the servers' underlying RDS-enabled operating system into your Horizon Cloud applications catalog. Horizon CloudWhat to do nextIf you created a desktops farm, you would next create a session-based desktop assignment for your end users by following the steps in Create an RDSH Session Desktop Assignment. Create an RDSH Session Desktop AssignmentIf you created an applications farm, you would next scan that farm to load applications into Horizon Cloud and then create an applications assignment so your end users can use the remote applications from that farm. Horizon CloudFor more information, see Applications in Your Horizon Cloud Inventory, Importing New Applications from an RDSH Farm Using Auto-Scan from Farm, and Create a Remote Application Assignment. Applications in Your Horizon Cloud InventoryImporting New Applications from an RDSH Farm Using Auto-Scan from FarmCreate a Remote Application AssignmentParent topic:Farms in Horizon CloudVMware, Inc x 