VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineUse the Assignments page to get an overview or detailed view of all the assignment types. You can view the details of individual assignments by clicking the respective assignment. For some assignment types, you can click on hyperlinks in the page to navigate to where you can perform actions on the individual assets used in that assignment. ProcedureIn the Administration Console, open the Assignments page by clicking Assign. In the Administration Console, open the Assignments page by clicking Assign. AssignOn the Assignments page, click the name of an assignment to see detailed information. The assignment opens to its Summary page. The information available is specific to each assignment type. On the Assignments page, click the name of an assignment to see detailed information. The assignment opens to its Summary page. The information available is specific to each assignment type. Navigate through the information depending on the assignment type. Assignment Type Description Session-based desktop View the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties. You can click on the link for the associated RDSH farm to navigate to information about the individual desktop sessions, system and user activity in the farm, and perform actions on the farm's servers. Remote application View the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties. You can click on the link for the associated RDSH farm to navigate to information about the individual sessions, system and user activity in the farm, and perform actions on the farm's servers. URL redirection customization View the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties. VDI desktop View the information on the Summary page and click Desktops, System Activity, or User Activity to view the information on those respective pages or work with the virtual desktops. The Summary page provides definition information about the assignment, the name of an image from which the desktop was created, and a list of the assigned users. The Desktops page provides information about the individual desktops created as part of the desktop assignment. You can also perform actions on an individual desktop, depending on its current state. You can also use the Desktops page to manage the individual desktops in a desktop assignment. The System Activity and User Activity pages provide activity information for that assignment over a specified time. Navigate through the information depending on the assignment type. Assignment TypeAssignment TypeDescription Description Session-based desktopSession-based desktopView the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties. You can click on the link for the associated RDSH farm to navigate to information about the individual desktop sessions, system and user activity in the farm, and perform actions on the farm's servers. View the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties. EditYou can click on the link for the associated RDSH farm to navigate to information about the individual desktop sessions, system and user activity in the farm, and perform actions on the farm's servers. Remote applicationRemote applicationView the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties. You can click on the link for the associated RDSH farm to navigate to information about the individual sessions, system and user activity in the farm, and perform actions on the farm's servers. View the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties. EditYou can click on the link for the associated RDSH farm to navigate to information about the individual sessions, system and user activity in the farm, and perform actions on the farm's servers. URL redirection customizationURL redirection customizationView the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties.View the information on the Summary page and optionally click Edit to update specific properties.EditVDI desktopVDI desktopView the information on the Summary page and click Desktops, System Activity, or User Activity to view the information on those respective pages or work with the virtual desktops. The Summary page provides definition information about the assignment, the name of an image from which the desktop was created, and a list of the assigned users. The Desktops page provides information about the individual desktops created as part of the desktop assignment. You can also perform actions on an individual desktop, depending on its current state. You can also use the Desktops page to manage the individual desktops in a desktop assignment. The System Activity and User Activity pages provide activity information for that assignment over a specified time. View the information on the Summary page and click Desktops, System Activity, or User Activity to view the information on those respective pages or work with the virtual desktops. DesktopsSystem ActivityUser ActivityThe Summary page provides definition information about the assignment, the name of an image from which the desktop was created, and a list of the assigned users. The Summary page provides definition information about the assignment, the name of an image from which the desktop was created, and a list of the assigned users. The Desktops page provides information about the individual desktops created as part of the desktop assignment. You can also perform actions on an individual desktop, depending on its current state. You can also use the Desktops page to manage the individual desktops in a desktop assignment. The Desktops page provides information about the individual desktops created as part of the desktop assignment. You can also perform actions on an individual desktop, depending on its current state. You can also use the Desktops page to manage the individual desktops in a desktop assignment. The System Activity and User Activity pages provide activity information for that assignment over a specified time. The System Activity and User Activity pages provide activity information for that assignment over a specified time. Parent topic:Managing AssignmentsVMware, Inc x 