VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineThe following steps are for manually preparing a master VM that has a Microsoft Windows client operating system, prior to installing the agents. You perform these steps using the Microsoft Azure portal and connecting into the new VM. About this taskAt a high-level, the steps to prepare the master server VM prior to actually installing the agents are: Join the VM to your Active Directory domain. Having a domain-joined master VM enables you to leverage the steps in Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image to connect to the VM after the agents are installed. Join the VM to your Active Directory domain. Having a domain-joined master VM enables you to leverage the steps in Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image to connect to the VM after the agents are installed. Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageIn the Microsoft Azure portal, stop the VM. When you see it is completely stopped in the portal, start the VM. In the Microsoft Azure portal, stop the VM. When you see it is completely stopped in the portal, start the VM. Set the VM's local administrator account properties to Password never expires. By default, the created VM's local security policy has accounts set to a maximum password age of 42 days. Preventing this local administrator account's password from expiring prevents the possibility of not being able to use this local account at a later time. The Horizon Cloud image publishing workflow uses the VM's local administrator account and removes the resulting sealed VM from the domain. If you allow the account's password to expire, at a future point in time you might encounter issues when publishing the image. Set the VM's local administrator account properties to Password never expires. By default, the created VM's local security policy has accounts set to a maximum password age of 42 days. Preventing this local administrator account's password from expiring prevents the possibility of not being able to use this local account at a later time. The Horizon Cloud image publishing workflow uses the VM's local administrator account and removes the resulting sealed VM from the domain. If you allow the account's password to expire, at a future point in time you might encounter issues when publishing the image. Password never expiresHorizon CloudDownload the Horizon Agents Installer to the VM. Download the Horizon Agents Installer to the VM. Horizon Agents InstallerDownload the DaaS SSL bootstrap file to the VM. Download the DaaS SSL bootstrap file to the VM. PrerequisitesComplete the steps in Create the Virtual Machine Manually in Your Node in Microsoft Azure. If you are using a base VM that you created in Microsoft Azure outside of those documented steps, ensure your base VM meets the criteria as listed in Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Create the Virtual Machine Manually in Your Node in Microsoft AzureManually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureCaution:Ensure that the VM was created with Storage - Use managed disk set to Yes and with the correct virtual network and subnet, as described in Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Otherwise, this VM will be unusable in Horizon Cloud even after you configure it and install the agent-related components, and then you will have to recreate it from scratch. Storage - Use managed diskYesManually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureHorizon CloudTo verify the VM meets that criteria before you spend time configuring it, log in to the Horizon Cloud Administration Console and navigate to the Inventory VMs page to see if the VM is listed. If it is listed, then the VM meets the above criteria and you can safely proceed with further configuration. Horizon CloudProcedureIn the portal's dashboard, click the icon for the VM to open its overview page. In the portal's dashboard, click the icon for the VM to open its overview page. Click Connect. Depending on your browser settings, your browser downloads an RDP file or prompts you to save or run it. Click Connect. ConnectDepending on your browser settings, your browser downloads an RDP file or prompts you to save or run it. Use that RDP file to open a remote desktop connection to the VM. Use the default user name and password that you specified in the VM creation wizard. Include a backslash (\) in front of the user name to log in without a domain. Use that RDP file to open a remote desktop connection to the VM. Click Yes to the certificate warning in the Remote Desktop Connection screen. Because this is the first login to the operating system, Windows might display a Networks prompt question on the right hand side. The prompt asks about automatically finding PCs, devices, and other items on the network. If the Networks prompt is displayed, dismiss it by clicking No. Click Yes to the certificate warning in the Remote Desktop Connection screen. YesBecause this is the first login to the operating system, Windows might display a Networks prompt question on the right hand side. The prompt asks about automatically finding PCs, devices, and other items on the network. If the Networks prompt is displayed, dismiss it by clicking No. NoRequired: Join the VM to the Active Directory (AD) domain that is registered with this node. Navigate to Settings > System > About. Click Join a domain. Enter the AD domain name that matches the one registered to the Horizon Cloud. When prompted, enter the name and password of an account with permission to join that domain and click OK. Wait for the authentication process to complete. Click Next in the window that asks to add an account for the domain-join user. In the prompt, click Restart Later. In the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop to power off the VM. When the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. Required: Join the VM to the Active Directory (AD) domain that is registered with this node. Navigate to Settings > System > About. Navigate to Settings > System > About. Settings > System > AboutSettingsSystemAboutClick Join a domain. Click Join a domain. Join a domainEnter the AD domain name that matches the one registered to the Horizon Cloud. Enter the AD domain name that matches the one registered to the Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudWhen prompted, enter the name and password of an account with permission to join that domain and click OK. When prompted, enter the name and password of an account with permission to join that domain and click OK. OKWait for the authentication process to complete. Wait for the authentication process to complete. Click Next in the window that asks to add an account for the domain-join user. Click Next in the window that asks to add an account for the domain-join user. NextIn the prompt, click Restart Later. In the prompt, click Restart Later. Restart LaterIn the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop to power off the VM. In the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop to power off the VM. StopWhen the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. When the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. StartIn Microsoft Azure portal, connect to the restarted VM as described in Step 2. In Microsoft Azure portal, connect to the restarted VM as described in Step 2. Step 2Log in using an AD domain account. Log in using an AD domain account. In the VM, set the VM's local administrator account password to Password never expires. In the VM, set the VM's local administrator account password to Password never expires. Password never expiresDownload the Horizon Agent Installer software to the VM from www.vmware.com by logging in using your My VMware account and navigating to the product's software downloads page. One method to download the installer is to point the VM's Internet Explorer browser to the My VMware location in vmware.com. Log in using your My VMware account. Navigate to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure downloads page by clicking View & Download Products, navigating to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service download components page, and selecting Go to Downloads for the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure choice. Download the Horizon Agent Installer software to the VM from www.vmware.com by logging in using your My VMware account and navigating to the product's software downloads page. Horizon Agent Installerwww.vmware.comMy VMwareOne method to download the installer is to point the VM's Internet Explorer browser to the My VMware location in vmware.com. Log in using your My VMware account. Navigate to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure downloads page by clicking View & Download Products, navigating to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service download components page, and selecting Go to Downloads for the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure choice. My VMwareMy VMwareVMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureView & Download ProductsGo to DownloadsVMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureDownload the DaaS SSL bootstrap file from Horizon Cloud. This file is used in the bootstrap process that allows the VM's operating system and the Horizon Cloud node to pair with each other securely. Point the VM's browser to https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com and log in with your credentials. Click Inventory > Images. On the Images page, select ... > Download Bootstrap. In the download window, select the appropriate location, the corresponding node, and enter and re-enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Make a note of this password for future use. Click OK to save the bootstrap file to a location in the VM. The downloaded file is named image_bootstrap.7z by default. When you later configure the agent-related components in the VM, this file is used as input to the Keytool.exe utility. Download the DaaS SSL bootstrap file from Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudThis file is used in the bootstrap process that allows the VM's operating system and the Horizon Cloud node to pair with each other securely. Horizon Cloud nodePoint the VM's browser to https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com and log in with your credentials. Point the VM's browser to https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com and log in with your credentials. https://cloud.horizon.vmware.comClick Inventory > Images. Click Inventory > Images. Inventory > ImagesInventoryImagesOn the Images page, select ... > Download Bootstrap. On the Images page, select ... > Download Bootstrap. Download BootstrapIn the download window, select the appropriate location, the corresponding node, and enter and re-enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Make a note of this password for future use. In the download window, select the appropriate location, the corresponding node, and enter and re-enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Make a note of this password for future use. Click OK to save the bootstrap file to a location in the VM. The downloaded file is named image_bootstrap.7z by default. When you later configure the agent-related components in the VM, this file is used as input to the Keytool.exe utility. Click OK to save the bootstrap file to a location in the VM. OKThe downloaded file is named image_bootstrap.7z by default. When you later configure the agent-related components in the VM, this file is used as input to the Keytool.exe utility. image_bootstrap.7zKeytool.exeWhat to do nextComplete the steps described in Install the Agent-Related Software Components in the Base Virtual Machine to install the agent-related software components. Install the Agent-Related Software Components in the Base Virtual MachineParent topic:Prepare the Manually Created Master VM Prior to Installing the AgentsVMware, Inc x 