VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineFor a node in Microsoft Azure, you can use the Import Desktop wizard to create the master virtual machine (VM) using an operating system image from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. In the process, the VM is automatically configured with the elements and agent-related software required to conform to the Horizon Cloud environment's requirements. The resulting VM is also joined to your AD domain as part of the automated process. Horizon CloudAbout this taskImportant:If your node is configured to use a proxy, you must create the base master VM using the alternative manual method, and not the automated Import Desktop method. By default, in the Advanced Options section, the wizard sets Yes to install those agent-related custom setup options that are both appropriate according to your other selections in the wizard and which are supported for use in the Horizon Cloud environment. If you want to change the default selections, expand the Advanced Options section in the Import Desktop - Marketplace window and set the toggles according to your needs. Advanced OptionsYesHorizon CloudAdvanced OptionsAs an example, the 3D support in RDSH agent option is selected by default in the Advanced Options section when you have selected a Microsoft Windows Server operating system in the OS drop-down list. However, when you have selected a Microsoft Windows client operating system that 3D support in RDSH agent option is not selected for installation. Because that option is only applicable for RDSH use, and RDSH farms only use server operating systems, the Import Image wizard automatically sets the appropriate 3D support in RDSH setting based on your OS choice. Advanced OptionsOSOSPrerequisitesBefore running the wizard, ensure that the image name you plan to use was not previously used for a master VM in your Horizon Cloud environment. For example, if a master image was converted into an assignable image so that it is listed on the Images page, do not use the same name for a new master image. Due to a known issue in this release, if you enter the same name, the system will fail to create the VM in Microsoft Azure, but no error message or notification is displayed to you in the Administration Console. Horizon CloudProcedureIn the Horizon Cloud Administration Console, click Inventory > Imported VMs and then click Import. In the Horizon Cloud Administration Console, click Inventory > Imported VMs and then click Import. Horizon CloudInventory > Imported VMsInventoryImported VMsImportIn the Import Desktop window, click From Marketplace. In the Import Desktop window, click From Marketplace. From MarketplaceSelect the destination location and node for the desktop. After you select a location, the choices in the Node list are filtered to show the nodes available in the selected location. Important: If you are planning to use this image for GPU-enabled RDSH session-based desktops or remote applications, ensure the selected node resides in a Microsoft Azure region that supports GPU-enabled virtual machines (VMs). GPU-enabled VMs are only available in some Microsoft Azure regions. See Microsoft Azure Products by region for details. Select the destination location and node for the desktop. After you select a location, the choices in the Node list are filtered to show the nodes available in the selected location. NodeImportant:If you are planning to use this image for GPU-enabled RDSH session-based desktops or remote applications, ensure the selected node resides in a Microsoft Azure region that supports GPU-enabled virtual machines (VMs). GPU-enabled VMs are only available in some Microsoft Azure regions. See Microsoft Azure Products by region for details. Microsoft Azure Products by regionSelect the details for the base VM. Option Description OS Select the Microsoft Windows operating system to use for the image's underlying VM. If you are going to use this image for VDI desktops, select one of the Windows 10 operating systems that are listed in the drop-down list. Do not select one of the server operating systems for a VDI desktop image. If you are going to use this image for RDSH session desktops or RDS-based remote applications, select one of the listed server operating systems. Note: This drop-down menu takes a few moments to populate the entries. Include GPU This toggle is visible only when OS is set to a Microsoft Windows Server operating system.. Set this toggle to Yes to specify a GPU-enabled VM for this master VM. Important: If you select Yes, after the master VM is created, you must log into the VM's operating system and install the supported NVIDIA graphics drivers to get the GPU capabilities of the Microsoft Azure GPU-enabled VM. You install the drivers after the VM is created and the Imported VMs page shows the agent-related status as active. Domain Select the Active Directory domain that you want configured in this master VM. The master VM will be joined to this domain. Enable Public IP Address Set this toggle to Yes to configure a public IP address for this master VM. When set to Yes, the VM gets both a private IP address and a public one. When this toggle is set to No, the VM is configured with only a private IP address in your Microsoft Azure environment. Select the details for the base VM. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionOSOSSelect the Microsoft Windows operating system to use for the image's underlying VM. If you are going to use this image for VDI desktops, select one of the Windows 10 operating systems that are listed in the drop-down list. Do not select one of the server operating systems for a VDI desktop image. If you are going to use this image for RDSH session desktops or RDS-based remote applications, select one of the listed server operating systems. Note: This drop-down menu takes a few moments to populate the entries. Select the Microsoft Windows operating system to use for the image's underlying VM. If you are going to use this image for VDI desktops, select one of the Windows 10 operating systems that are listed in the drop-down list. Do not select one of the server operating systems for a VDI desktop image. If you are going to use this image for VDI desktops, select one of the Windows 10 operating systems that are listed in the drop-down list. Do not select one of the server operating systems for a VDI desktop image. If you are going to use this image for RDSH session desktops or RDS-based remote applications, select one of the listed server operating systems. If you are going to use this image for RDSH session desktops or RDS-based remote applications, select one of the listed server operating systems. Note:This drop-down menu takes a few moments to populate the entries. Include GPUInclude GPUThis toggle is visible only when OS is set to a Microsoft Windows Server operating system.. Set this toggle to Yes to specify a GPU-enabled VM for this master VM. Important: If you select Yes, after the master VM is created, you must log into the VM's operating system and install the supported NVIDIA graphics drivers to get the GPU capabilities of the Microsoft Azure GPU-enabled VM. You install the drivers after the VM is created and the Imported VMs page shows the agent-related status as active. This toggle is visible only when OS is set to a Microsoft Windows Server operating system.. Set this toggle to Yes to specify a GPU-enabled VM for this master VM. OSYesImportant:If you select Yes, after the master VM is created, you must log into the VM's operating system and install the supported NVIDIA graphics drivers to get the GPU capabilities of the Microsoft Azure GPU-enabled VM. You install the drivers after the VM is created and the Imported VMs page shows the agent-related status as active. YesDomainDomainSelect the Active Directory domain that you want configured in this master VM. The master VM will be joined to this domain.Select the Active Directory domain that you want configured in this master VM. The master VM will be joined to this domain.Enable Public IP AddressEnable Public IP AddressSet this toggle to Yes to configure a public IP address for this master VM. When set to Yes, the VM gets both a private IP address and a public one. When this toggle is set to No, the VM is configured with only a private IP address in your Microsoft Azure environment. Set this toggle to Yes to configure a public IP address for this master VM. When set to Yes, the VM gets both a private IP address and a public one. YesYesWhen this toggle is set to No, the VM is configured with only a private IP address in your Microsoft Azure environment. NoProvide administration details. Note: The username and password you enter must meet the Microsoft requirements for acceptable user names and passwords for creating a VM in Microsoft Azure. For the list of requirements, see username requirements and password requirements in the Microsoft documentation. Option Description Username Type the admin username that you want for the VM's local administrator account. This local administrator account is created in the VM during the process. This username will be used for the local admin account to access the VM's operating system, and also used during the convert to image process. This username can be a maximum of 15 characters in length, must not end in a period ("."), and must not be one of the admin user names that are not allowed when creating a VM in Microsoft Azure. Important: Ensure you can remember this local administrator account information (the username and password that you specify in the Password field), or that you write it down so you can retrieve the information later. You will need these credentials when you want to add any third-party applications to this master image and when performing the New Image workflow to publish this master image to the system. Password Type the password that you want for that administrator account. The password must adhere to the Microsoft Azure password rules: Must not be one of the admin account passwords that are not allowed when creating a VM in Microsoft Azure Must be 12 - 123 characters in length and meet three out of the following four complexity requirements: Contain a lowercase character Contain an uppercase characters Contain a digit Contain a special character, such as (!@#$%/^&*) Verify Password Re-type the password. Windows license question To confirm that you have an applicable Windows License for the operating system you selected as the OS, set this toggle to Yes and check the check box that appears. Provide administration details. Note:The username and password you enter must meet the Microsoft requirements for acceptable user names and passwords for creating a VM in Microsoft Azure. For the list of requirements, see username requirements and password requirements in the Microsoft documentation. username requirementspassword requirementsOptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionUsernameUsernameType the admin username that you want for the VM's local administrator account. This local administrator account is created in the VM during the process. This username will be used for the local admin account to access the VM's operating system, and also used during the convert to image process. This username can be a maximum of 15 characters in length, must not end in a period ("."), and must not be one of the admin user names that are not allowed when creating a VM in Microsoft Azure. Important: Ensure you can remember this local administrator account information (the username and password that you specify in the Password field), or that you write it down so you can retrieve the information later. You will need these credentials when you want to add any third-party applications to this master image and when performing the New Image workflow to publish this master image to the system. Type the admin username that you want for the VM's local administrator account. This local administrator account is created in the VM during the process. This username will be used for the local admin account to access the VM's operating system, and also used during the convert to image process. This username can be a maximum of 15 characters in length, must not end in a period ("."), and must not be one of the admin user names that are not allowed when creating a VM in Microsoft Azure. Important:Ensure you can remember this local administrator account information (the username and password that you specify in the Password field), or that you write it down so you can retrieve the information later. You will need these credentials when you want to add any third-party applications to this master image and when performing the New Image workflow to publish this master image to the system. PasswordPasswordPasswordType the password that you want for that administrator account. The password must adhere to the Microsoft Azure password rules: Must not be one of the admin account passwords that are not allowed when creating a VM in Microsoft Azure Must be 12 - 123 characters in length and meet three out of the following four complexity requirements: Contain a lowercase character Contain an uppercase characters Contain a digit Contain a special character, such as (!@#$%/^&*) Type the password that you want for that administrator account. The password must adhere to the Microsoft Azure password rules: Must not be one of the admin account passwords that are not allowed when creating a VM in Microsoft Azure Must not be one of the admin account passwords that are not allowed when creating a VM in Microsoft Azure Must be 12 - 123 characters in length and meet three out of the following four complexity requirements: Contain a lowercase character Contain an uppercase characters Contain a digit Contain a special character, such as (!@#$%/^&*) Must be 12 - 123 characters in length and meet three out of the following four complexity requirements: Contain a lowercase character Contain a lowercase character Contain an uppercase characters Contain an uppercase characters Contain a digit Contain a digit Contain a special character, such as (!@#$%/^&*) Contain a special character, such as (!@#$%/^&*) Verify PasswordVerify PasswordRe-type the password.Re-type the password.Windows license questionWindows license questionTo confirm that you have an applicable Windows License for the operating system you selected as the OS, set this toggle to Yes and check the check box that appears.To confirm that you have an applicable Windows License for the operating system you selected as the OS, set this toggle to Yes and check the check box that appears.OSYesIn the Name field, provide a name for the master VM and an optional description. Important: Do not enter a name that was previously used for a master VM that has been converted into an assignable image in your Horizon Cloud environment. For example, if a master image was converted into an assignable image so that it is listed on the Images page, do not enter the same name here. Due to a known issue, the VM creation process will fail silently if you reuse a name that is already listed on the Images page. The system will not create the VM in Microsoft Azure, however, an error message does not appear in the Administration Console. The name must adhere to the following rules: It cannot contain an underscore character (_). It can have only alphanumeric characters and the hyphen. The name must start with an alphabetic character (not a number). The name cannot end with a hyphen (-). In the Name field, provide a name for the master VM and an optional description. NameImportant:Do not enter a name that was previously used for a master VM that has been converted into an assignable image in your Horizon Cloud environment. For example, if a master image was converted into an assignable image so that it is listed on the Images page, do not enter the same name here. Due to a known issue, the VM creation process will fail silently if you reuse a name that is already listed on the Images page. The system will not create the VM in Microsoft Azure, however, an error message does not appear in the Administration Console. Horizon CloudThe name must adhere to the following rules: It cannot contain an underscore character (_). It cannot contain an underscore character (_). It can have only alphanumeric characters and the hyphen. It can have only alphanumeric characters and the hyphen. The name must start with an alphabetic character (not a number). The name must start with an alphabetic character (not a number). The name cannot end with a hyphen (-). The name cannot end with a hyphen (-). Use the toggles in the Advanced Options section to customize the Horizon agent features that will be installed in the master VM. When the option's toggle is set to Yes, the corresponding feature will be installed in the master VM. Note: This release does not support having the URL Redirection option installed when either the Scanner Redirection and Serial Port Redirection options are installed. As a result, if you toggle URL Redirection to Yes, those other two options cannot be set to Yes at the same time. In addition to the option selected in this Import Desktop wizard, two other Horizon agent features are always installed by default: HTML5 Multimedia Redirection - The feature redirects HTML5 multimedia content in a Chrome or Edge browser to the user's local system for performance optimization. Horizon Performance Tracker - Monitors the performance of the display protocol and system resource usage. Option Description Enable Flash MMR Provides the ability to redirect Flash multimedia content that is streamed to the virtual desktop to stream directly to the client computer and decoded on the client system, for performance optimization. The client system plays the media content, offloading the demand on the virtual desktop. 3D support in RDSH Applicable when the OS choice is set to a server operating system. Provides 3D graphics support to applications that run on a GPU-enabled RDSH server image. MMR for Terminal Services Provides the ability to redirect multimedia content that is streamed to the virtual desktop to stream directly to the client computer and decoded on the client system, for performance optimization. The client system plays the media content, offloading the demand on the virtual desktop. Client Drive Redirection Allows Horizon Client users to share local drives with their virtual desktops and RDS-based applications. Skype for Business Provides the ability to use the virtual desktops to make optimized audio and video calls with Skype for Business. Webcam Support (Real Time Audio Video RTAV) Redirects webcam and audio devices that are connected to the users' client systems so that those devices can be used on the virtual desktop. Smart Card Not installed by default. Lets users authenticate with smart cards when they use the PCoIP or Blast Extreme display protocol. Thin Print Allows users to print to any printer available on their client computers, without installing additional drivers. Scanner Redirection Not installed by default. Redirects scanning and imaging devices that are connected to the users' client systems so that they can be used on the virtual desktop or RDS-based application. USB Redirection Not installed by default. Gives users access to locally connected USB flash drives and hard disks in the virtual desktops and RDS-based applications. Note: For guidance on using USB redirection securely, see the View Security guide. For example, you can use group policy settings to disable USB redirection for specific users. URL Redirection Not installed by default. Allows Horizon Client to determine which URLs should be handled by the virtual desktop or application instead of being opened by the users' client system, and open those URLs using the virtual desktop or RDS-based application. Important: This release does not support using the URL Redirection option along with the Scanner Redirection and Serial Port Redirection options. When you set the URL Redirection toggle to Yes, those two other options are automatically set to No. Serial Port Redirection Not installed by default. Redirects devices that are connected to the serial ports on the users' client systems so that they can be used on the virtual desktop or RDS-based application. For extended details about the above agent-related options used for VDI desktops and RDS hosts, see Horizon Agent Custom Setup Options for a VDI Desktop and Horizon Agent Custom Setup Options for an RDS Host in the VMware Horizon® 7 product documentation. Use the toggles in the Advanced Options section to customize the Horizon agent features that will be installed in the master VM. Advanced OptionsWhen the option's toggle is set to Yes, the corresponding feature will be installed in the master VM. YesNote:This release does not support having the URL Redirection option installed when either the Scanner Redirection and Serial Port Redirection options are installed. As a result, if you toggle URL Redirection to Yes, those other two options cannot be set to Yes at the same time. URL RedirectionScanner RedirectionSerial Port RedirectionURL RedirectionYesYesIn addition to the option selected in this Import Desktop wizard, two other Horizon agent features are always installed by default: HTML5 Multimedia Redirection - The feature redirects HTML5 multimedia content in a Chrome or Edge browser to the user's local system for performance optimization. HTML5 Multimedia Redirection - The feature redirects HTML5 multimedia content in a Chrome or Edge browser to the user's local system for performance optimization. Horizon Performance Tracker - Monitors the performance of the display protocol and system resource usage. Horizon Performance Tracker - Monitors the performance of the display protocol and system resource usage. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionEnable Flash MMREnable Flash MMRProvides the ability to redirect Flash multimedia content that is streamed to the virtual desktop to stream directly to the client computer and decoded on the client system, for performance optimization. The client system plays the media content, offloading the demand on the virtual desktop.Provides the ability to redirect Flash multimedia content that is streamed to the virtual desktop to stream directly to the client computer and decoded on the client system, for performance optimization. The client system plays the media content, offloading the demand on the virtual desktop.Applicable when the OS choice is set to a server operating system. Provides 3D graphics support to applications that run on a GPU-enabled RDSH server image.Applicable when the OS choice is set to a server operating system. Provides 3D graphics support to applications that run on a GPU-enabled RDSH server image.OSMMR for Terminal ServicesMMR for Terminal ServicesProvides the ability to redirect multimedia content that is streamed to the virtual desktop to stream directly to the client computer and decoded on the client system, for performance optimization. The client system plays the media content, offloading the demand on the virtual desktop.Provides the ability to redirect multimedia content that is streamed to the virtual desktop to stream directly to the client computer and decoded on the client system, for performance optimization. The client system plays the media content, offloading the demand on the virtual desktop.Client Drive RedirectionClient Drive RedirectionAllows Horizon Client users to share local drives with their virtual desktops and RDS-based applications.Allows Horizon Client users to share local drives with their virtual desktops and RDS-based applications.Skype for BusinessSkype for BusinessProvides the ability to use the virtual desktops to make optimized audio and video calls with Skype for Business.Provides the ability to use the virtual desktops to make optimized audio and video calls with Skype for Business.Webcam Support (Real Time Audio Video RTAV)Webcam Support (Real Time Audio Video RTAV)Redirects webcam and audio devices that are connected to the users' client systems so that those devices can be used on the virtual desktop.Redirects webcam and audio devices that are connected to the users' client systems so that those devices can be used on the virtual desktop.Smart CardSmart CardNot installed by default. Lets users authenticate with smart cards when they use the PCoIP or Blast Extreme display protocol.Not installed by default. Lets users authenticate with smart cards when they use the PCoIP or Blast Extreme display protocol.Thin PrintThin PrintAllows users to print to any printer available on their client computers, without installing additional drivers.Allows users to print to any printer available on their client computers, without installing additional drivers.Scanner RedirectionScanner RedirectionNot installed by default. Redirects scanning and imaging devices that are connected to the users' client systems so that they can be used on the virtual desktop or RDS-based application.Not installed by default. Redirects scanning and imaging devices that are connected to the users' client systems so that they can be used on the virtual desktop or RDS-based application.USB RedirectionUSB RedirectionNot installed by default. Gives users access to locally connected USB flash drives and hard disks in the virtual desktops and RDS-based applications. Note: For guidance on using USB redirection securely, see the View Security guide. For example, you can use group policy settings to disable USB redirection for specific users. Not installed by default. Gives users access to locally connected USB flash drives and hard disks in the virtual desktops and RDS-based applications. Note:For guidance on using USB redirection securely, see the View Security guide. For example, you can use group policy settings to disable USB redirection for specific users. View SecurityURL RedirectionURL RedirectionNot installed by default. Allows Horizon Client to determine which URLs should be handled by the virtual desktop or application instead of being opened by the users' client system, and open those URLs using the virtual desktop or RDS-based application. Important: This release does not support using the URL Redirection option along with the Scanner Redirection and Serial Port Redirection options. When you set the URL Redirection toggle to Yes, those two other options are automatically set to No. Not installed by default. Allows Horizon Client to determine which URLs should be handled by the virtual desktop or application instead of being opened by the users' client system, and open those URLs using the virtual desktop or RDS-based application. Important:This release does not support using the URL Redirection option along with the Scanner Redirection and Serial Port Redirection options. When you set the URL Redirection toggle to Yes, those two other options are automatically set to No. URL RedirectionScanner RedirectionSerial Port RedirectionURL RedirectionYesNoSerial Port RedirectionSerial Port RedirectionNot installed by default. Redirects devices that are connected to the serial ports on the users' client systems so that they can be used on the virtual desktop or RDS-based application.Not installed by default. Redirects devices that are connected to the serial ports on the users' client systems so that they can be used on the virtual desktop or RDS-based application.For extended details about the above agent-related options used for VDI desktops and RDS hosts, see Horizon Agent Custom Setup Options for a VDI Desktop and Horizon Agent Custom Setup Options for an RDS Host in the VMware Horizon® 7 product documentation. Horizon Agent Custom Setup Options for a VDI DesktopHorizon Agent Custom Setup Options for an RDS HostClick Import. Click Import. ImportResultsThe system begins creating and configuring the master VM. During this process, the VM is joined to the Active Directory domain that was selected in the Domain list. When the VM is created in the node, it is listed on the Imported VMs page. Use the refresh icon to see the latest set of VMs on the page. Even though the VM is listed on the page after several minutes, the master VM is not ready to for installing applications or drivers until the Imported VMs page indicates an active agent-related status. It can take as long as 30 minutes for the agent status to reach active state. DomainImportant:When creating an image in Microsoft Azure China cloud, the process can take up to two (2) hours to complete. The process is subject to geographic network issues that can cause slow download speeds as the binaries are downloaded from the cloud control plane. What to do nextThe resulting domain-joined VM has a local administrator account, with the credentials that you provided in the Import Desktop wizard. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of the local administrator account on domain-joined VMs, you must configure the image VM's DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with the non-local domain accounts you want connecting to the VM to customize the image. For details, see Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageCustomize the image's Windows operating system, including configuring things like wallpapers and installing the applications you want the VM to provide to your end users. If you enabled a public IP address for the VM, you can connect to the created VM by using the IP address displayed on the Imported VMs page in an RDP client like Microsoft Remote Desktop Connection. For details, see Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating System. Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating SystemNote:If your node is configured to use a proxy, you are responsible for providing a way for the virtual desktop VMs and farm server VMs to be configured with the proxy. If you selected Yes for Include GPU, you must log into the VM's operating system and install the supported NVIDIA graphics drivers to get the GPU capabilities of the Microsoft Azure GPU-enabled VM. You install the drivers after the VM is created and the Imported VMs page shows the agent-related status is active. See Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image. YesInclude GPUInstall NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master ImageParent topic:Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureVMware, Inc x 