VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineWhen you initially deployed a node without configuring it to serve Internet-enabled desktops, you can add this ability to the node using the Administration Console's Edit Node wizard. You launch that wizard from the node's summary page. About this taskThese steps describe changing an existing node's configuration to add the ability to serve Internet-enabled desktops. Adding the ability for Internet-enabled desktops to the node means your end users that are located outside of your corporate network can access the desktops and applications served from the node. The system changes the node configuration to have a load balancer and Unified Access Gateway instances to enable this access. As part of this workflow, you can optionally provide the configuration for those end-user desktops to use RADIUS two-factor authentication. Note:If your node is already configured for Internet-enabled desktops but not two-factor authentication on those end-user desktops, you cannot use this workflow to add the two-factor authentication configuration pieces. This release does not support adding the two-factor authentication configuration after the Unified Access Gateway instances are already deployed. Important:During the time the system is changing the node configuration until it is finished, the following limitations apply: You cannot perform administration tasks on the node. You cannot perform administration tasks on the node. End users who do not have connected sessions to their desktops or remote applications served by the node and who attempt to connect cannot do so. End users who do not have connected sessions to their desktops or remote applications served by the node and who attempt to connect cannot do so. End users who have connected sessions served by the node will have those active sessions disconnected. No data loss will occur. After the configuration changes are complete, those users can reconnect. End users who have connected sessions served by the node will have those active sessions disconnected. No data loss will occur. After the configuration changes are complete, those users can reconnect. PrerequisitesTo complete the fields in the Edit Node wizard, you must provide the following information. Information needed to configure the node for Internet-enabled desktops: The CIDR address range you are going to enter for a DMZ subnet. The system will create the DMZ subnet as it changes the node to have the load balancer and Unified Access Gateway instances. Verify that the range you want to use does not overlap with other existing subnets' address ranges. You enter the address range using CIDR notation (classless inter-domain routing notation). The screen will display an error if the entered DMZ subnet range overlaps. For the DMZ subnet range, a CIDR of at least /28 is required. If you want to keep the node's management and DMZ subnet ranges co-located, you can specify the DMZ subnet range the same as the node's management subnet with an IP specified. For example, if the node's management subnet is 192.168.8.0/28, the DMZ subnet would be 192.168.8.32/28. Important: The CIDRs you enter into the wizard's fields must be defined so that each combination of prefix and bit mask results in an IP address range having the prefix as the starting IP address. Microsoft Azure requires that the CIDR prefix be the start of the range. For example, a correct CIDR of 192.168.182.48/28 would result in an IP range of 192.168.182.48 to 192.168.182.63, and the prefix is the same as the starting IP address (192.168.182.48). However, an incorrect CIDR of 192.168.182.60/28 would result in an IP range of 192.168.182.48 to 192.168.182.63, where the starting IP address is not the same as the prefix of 192.168.182.60. Ensure that your CIDRs result in IP address ranges where the starting IP address matches the CIDR prefix. The CIDR address range you are going to enter for a DMZ subnet. The system will create the DMZ subnet as it changes the node to have the load balancer and Unified Access Gateway instances. Verify that the range you want to use does not overlap with other existing subnets' address ranges. You enter the address range using CIDR notation (classless inter-domain routing notation). The screen will display an error if the entered DMZ subnet range overlaps. For the DMZ subnet range, a CIDR of at least /28 is required. If you want to keep the node's management and DMZ subnet ranges co-located, you can specify the DMZ subnet range the same as the node's management subnet with an IP specified. For example, if the node's management subnet is 192.168.8.0/28, the DMZ subnet would be 192.168.8.32/28. Important:The CIDRs you enter into the wizard's fields must be defined so that each combination of prefix and bit mask results in an IP address range having the prefix as the starting IP address. Microsoft Azure requires that the CIDR prefix be the start of the range. For example, a correct CIDR of 192.168.182.48/28 would result in an IP range of 192.168.182.48 to 192.168.182.63, and the prefix is the same as the starting IP address (192.168.182.48). However, an incorrect CIDR of 192.168.182.60/28 would result in an IP range of 192.168.182.48 to 192.168.182.63, where the starting IP address is not the same as the prefix of 192.168.182.60. Ensure that your CIDRs result in IP address ranges where the starting IP address matches the CIDR prefix. A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) that is unique to this node. You cannot reuse an FQDN that is already configured for your other deployed nodes. A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) that is unique to this node. You cannot reuse an FQDN that is already configured for your other deployed nodes. A signed SSL server certificate (in PEM format) based on that FQDN. The Unified Access Gateway capabilities require SSL for client connections, as described in the Unified Access Gateway product documentation. The certificate must be signed by a trusted Certificate Authority (CA). The single PEM file must contain the full entire certificate chain with the private key. For example, the single PEM file must contain the SSL server certificate, any necessary intermediate CA certificates, the root CA certificate, and private key. OpenSSL is a tool you can use to create the PEM file. A signed SSL server certificate (in PEM format) based on that FQDN. The Unified Access Gateway capabilities require SSL for client connections, as described in the Unified Access Gateway product documentation. The certificate must be signed by a trusted Certificate Authority (CA). The single PEM file must contain the full entire certificate chain with the private key. For example, the single PEM file must contain the SSL server certificate, any necessary intermediate CA certificates, the root CA certificate, and private key. OpenSSL is a tool you can use to create the PEM file. Unified Access GatewayUnified Access GatewayIf your SSL certificate is not in PEM format, see Convert a Certificate File to the PEM Format Required for Node Deployment. Convert a Certificate File to the PEM Format Required for Node DeploymentInformation about your two-factor authentication server needed to configure using two-factor authentication with those end-user desktops: IP address or DNS name of the authentication server IP address or DNS name of the authentication server The shared secret that is used for encryption and decryption in the authentication server's protocol messages The shared secret that is used for encryption and decryption in the authentication server's protocol messages Authentication port numbers, typically the 1812 UDP port. Authentication port numbers, typically the 1812 UDP port. Authentication protocol type. The authentication types include PAP (Password Authentication Protocol), CHAP (Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol), MSCHAP1, MSCHAP2 (Microsoft Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol, version 1 and 2) Authentication protocol type. The authentication types include PAP (Password Authentication Protocol), CHAP (Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol), MSCHAP1, MSCHAP2 (Microsoft Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol, version 1 and 2) If you have both a primary and secondary two-factor authentication server, obtain the information for each of them. ProcedureIn the Administration Console, navigate to Settings > Capacity and click the node's name to open its details page. In the Administration Console, navigate to Settings > Capacity and click the node's name to open its details page. Settings > CapacitySettingsCapacityIn the node's details page, click Edit. In the node's details page, click Edit. EditIn the Edit Node window, click Next to move to the Internet Enabled Desktops step. In the Edit Node window, click Next to move to the Internet Enabled Desktops step. NextInternet Enabled DesktopsSet the Internet-Enabled Desktops? toggle to Yes. When the toggle is set to Yes, the wizard displays the additional configuration fields. Use the scroll bar to access all of the fields. Set the Internet-Enabled Desktops? toggle to Yes. Internet-Enabled Desktops?YesWhen the toggle is set to Yes, the wizard displays the additional configuration fields. Use the scroll bar to access all of the fields. YesProvide the requested information. Option Description FQDN Enter the required fully qualified domain name (FQDN), such as ourOrg.example.com, which your end users will use to access the service. You must own that domain name and have a certificate in PEM format that can validate that FQDN. DMZ Subnet (CIDR) Enter the address range for the subnet (in CIDR notation) for the DMZ (demilitarized zone) network that will be added to the node to connect the Unified Access Gateway instances to the load balancer. DNS Addresses Optionally enter addresses for additional DNS servers that Unified Access Gateway can use for name resolution, separated by commas (for example 198.51.100.1, 8.8.8.8, 75.75.75.75, ourdns.example.com). When configuring this node to use two-factor authentication with your on-premises RADIUS server, you would specify the address of a DNS server that can resolve the name of your on-premises RADIUS server. As described in Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure, a DNS server must be set up internally in your subscription and configured to provide external name resolution. The Unified Access Gateway instances use that DNS server by default. If you specify addresses in this field, the deployed Unified Access Gateway instances use the addresses in addition to the prerequisite DNS server that you configured in your subscription's virtual network. Routes Optionally specify custom routes to additional gateways that you want the deployed Unified Access Gateway instances to use to resolve network routing for the end user access. The specified routes are used to allow Unified Access Gateway to resolve network routing such as to RADIUS servers for two-factor authentication. When configuring this node to use two-factor authentication with an on-premises RADIUS server, you must enter the correct route the Unified Access Gateway instances can use to reach the RADIUS server. For example, if your on-premises RADIUS server uses 10.10.60.20 as its IP address, you would enter 10.10.60.0/24 and your default route gateway address as a custom route. You obtain your default route gateway address from the Express Route or VPN configuration you are using for this environment. Specify the custom routes as a comma-separated list in the form ipv4-network-address/bits ipv4-gateway-address, for example: 192.168.1.0/24 192.168.0.1, 192.168.2.0/24 192.168.0.2. Certificate Upload the certificate in PEM format that Unified Access Gateway will use to allow clients to trust connections to the Unified Access Gateway instances running in Microsoft Azure. The certificate must be based on the FQDN you entered and be signed by a trusted CA. At this point, if you are not configuring two-factor authentication for the end-user desktops, you can skip to step 7. Provide the requested information. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionFQDNFQDNFQDNEnter the required fully qualified domain name (FQDN), such as ourOrg.example.com, which your end users will use to access the service. You must own that domain name and have a certificate in PEM format that can validate that FQDN. Enter the required fully qualified domain name (FQDN), such as ourOrg.example.com, which your end users will use to access the service. You must own that domain name and have a certificate in PEM format that can validate that FQDN. ourOrg.example.comDMZ Subnet (CIDR)DMZ Subnet (CIDR)DMZ Subnet (CIDR)Enter the address range for the subnet (in CIDR notation) for the DMZ (demilitarized zone) network that will be added to the node to connect the Unified Access Gateway instances to the load balancer. Enter the address range for the subnet (in CIDR notation) for the DMZ (demilitarized zone) network that will be added to the node to connect the Unified Access Gateway instances to the load balancer. Unified Access GatewayDNS AddressesDNS AddressesDNS AddressesOptionally enter addresses for additional DNS servers that Unified Access Gateway can use for name resolution, separated by commas (for example 198.51.100.1, 8.8.8.8, 75.75.75.75, ourdns.example.com). When configuring this node to use two-factor authentication with your on-premises RADIUS server, you would specify the address of a DNS server that can resolve the name of your on-premises RADIUS server. As described in Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure, a DNS server must be set up internally in your subscription and configured to provide external name resolution. The Unified Access Gateway instances use that DNS server by default. If you specify addresses in this field, the deployed Unified Access Gateway instances use the addresses in addition to the prerequisite DNS server that you configured in your subscription's virtual network. Optionally enter addresses for additional DNS servers that Unified Access Gateway can use for name resolution, separated by commas (for example 198.51.100.1, 8.8.8.8, 75.75.75.75, ourdns.example.com). When configuring this node to use two-factor authentication with your on-premises RADIUS server, you would specify the address of a DNS server that can resolve the name of your on-premises RADIUS server. Unified Access GatewayAs described in Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure, a DNS server must be set up internally in your subscription and configured to provide external name resolution. The Unified Access Gateway instances use that DNS server by default. If you specify addresses in this field, the deployed Unified Access Gateway instances use the addresses in addition to the prerequisite DNS server that you configured in your subscription's virtual network. Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureUnified Access GatewayUnified Access GatewayRoutesRoutesRoutesOptionally specify custom routes to additional gateways that you want the deployed Unified Access Gateway instances to use to resolve network routing for the end user access. The specified routes are used to allow Unified Access Gateway to resolve network routing such as to RADIUS servers for two-factor authentication. When configuring this node to use two-factor authentication with an on-premises RADIUS server, you must enter the correct route the Unified Access Gateway instances can use to reach the RADIUS server. For example, if your on-premises RADIUS server uses 10.10.60.20 as its IP address, you would enter 10.10.60.0/24 and your default route gateway address as a custom route. You obtain your default route gateway address from the Express Route or VPN configuration you are using for this environment. Specify the custom routes as a comma-separated list in the form ipv4-network-address/bits ipv4-gateway-address, for example: 192.168.1.0/24 192.168.0.1, 192.168.2.0/24 192.168.0.2. Optionally specify custom routes to additional gateways that you want the deployed Unified Access Gateway instances to use to resolve network routing for the end user access. The specified routes are used to allow Unified Access Gateway to resolve network routing such as to RADIUS servers for two-factor authentication. Unified Access GatewayUnified Access GatewayWhen configuring this node to use two-factor authentication with an on-premises RADIUS server, you must enter the correct route the Unified Access Gateway instances can use to reach the RADIUS server. For example, if your on-premises RADIUS server uses 10.10.60.20 as its IP address, you would enter 10.10.60.0/24 and your default route gateway address as a custom route. You obtain your default route gateway address from the Express Route or VPN configuration you are using for this environment. Unified Access GatewaySpecify the custom routes as a comma-separated list in the form ipv4-network-address/bits ipv4-gateway-address, for example: 192.168.1.0/24 192.168.0.1, 192.168.2.0/24 192.168.0.2. ipv4-network-address/bits ipv4-gateway-addressCertificateCertificateCertificateUpload the certificate in PEM format that Unified Access Gateway will use to allow clients to trust connections to the Unified Access Gateway instances running in Microsoft Azure. The certificate must be based on the FQDN you entered and be signed by a trusted CA.Upload the certificate in PEM format that Unified Access Gateway will use to allow clients to trust connections to the Unified Access Gateway instances running in Microsoft Azure. The certificate must be based on the FQDN you entered and be signed by a trusted CA.Unified Access GatewayUnified Access GatewayAt this point, if you are not configuring two-factor authentication for the end-user desktops, you can skip to step 7. Configure the end users' desktops to use RADIUS two-factor authentication by using the following steps. Select Yes for the Enable 2 Factor Authentication? toggle. When the toggle is set to Yes, the wizard displays the additional configuration fields. Use the scroll bar to access all of the fields. Select your two-factor authentication method in the drop-down list. In this release, RADIUS authentication is supported. In the Name field, enter an identifying name for this configuration. In the Properties section, specify details related to the end users' interaction with the login screen they will use to authenticate for access. Option Description Display Name Optionally provide a name that the system will display to the end users on the Horizon Cloud login screen to identify which RADIUS system they are using to authenticate for access. Display Hint Optionally enter a text string that the system will display in the message on the login screen to direct users to enter the correct RADIUS passcode. Name ID Suffix Optionally enter a text string such as a domain name that you want appended to the user's name before it is sent to the authentication server. For example, when you want a user to type user1 into the login screen, but you want the system to send user1@example.com to the authentication server, you would enter @example.com into this field. Number of Iterations Enter the maximum number of failed authentication attempts that a user is allowed when attempting to log in using this RADIUS system. Maintain Username Select Yes to maintain the user's RADIUS username during authentication to Horizon Cloud. When Yes is selected: The user must have the same username credentials for RADIUS as for their Active Directory authentication to Horizon Cloud. The user cannot change the username in the login screen. If you select No, the user is able to type a different user name in the login screen. In the Primary Server section, specify details about the authentication server. Option Description Host Name / IP Address Enter the DNS name or the IP address of the authentication server. Shared Secret Enter the secret for communicating with the authentication server. The value must be identical to the server-configured value. Authentication Port Specify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving authentication traffic. The default is 1812. Accounting Port Optionally specify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving accounting traffic. The default is 1813. Mechanism Select the authentication protocol that is supported by the specified authentication server and which you want the deployed node to use. Server Timeout Specify the number of seconds that the node should wait for a response from the authentication server. After this number of seconds, a retry is sent if the server does not respond. Max Number of Retries Specify the maximum number of times the node should retry failed requests to the authentication server. Realm Prefix Optionally provide a string which the system will place at the beginning of the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. The user account location is called the realm. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm prefix of DOMAIN-A\ was specified here, the system sends DOMAIN-A\user1 to the authentication server. If you do not specify a realm prefix, only the entered user name is sent. Realm Suffix Optionally provide a string which the system will append to the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm suffix of @example.com was specified here, the system sends user1@example.com to the authentication server. (Optional) In the Secondary Server section, optionally specify details about an auxiliary authentication server. You can configure a secondary authentication server to provide for high availability. Set the Auxiliary Server toggle to Yes and complete the fields as described for the Primary Server section. Configure the end users' desktops to use RADIUS two-factor authentication by using the following steps. Select Yes for the Enable 2 Factor Authentication? toggle. When the toggle is set to Yes, the wizard displays the additional configuration fields. Use the scroll bar to access all of the fields. Select Yes for the Enable 2 Factor Authentication? toggle. YesEnable 2 Factor Authentication?When the toggle is set to Yes, the wizard displays the additional configuration fields. Use the scroll bar to access all of the fields. YesSelect your two-factor authentication method in the drop-down list. In this release, RADIUS authentication is supported. Select your two-factor authentication method in the drop-down list. In this release, RADIUS authentication is supported. In the Name field, enter an identifying name for this configuration. In the Name field, enter an identifying name for this configuration. NameIn the Properties section, specify details related to the end users' interaction with the login screen they will use to authenticate for access. Option Description Display Name Optionally provide a name that the system will display to the end users on the Horizon Cloud login screen to identify which RADIUS system they are using to authenticate for access. Display Hint Optionally enter a text string that the system will display in the message on the login screen to direct users to enter the correct RADIUS passcode. Name ID Suffix Optionally enter a text string such as a domain name that you want appended to the user's name before it is sent to the authentication server. For example, when you want a user to type user1 into the login screen, but you want the system to send user1@example.com to the authentication server, you would enter @example.com into this field. Number of Iterations Enter the maximum number of failed authentication attempts that a user is allowed when attempting to log in using this RADIUS system. Maintain Username Select Yes to maintain the user's RADIUS username during authentication to Horizon Cloud. When Yes is selected: The user must have the same username credentials for RADIUS as for their Active Directory authentication to Horizon Cloud. The user cannot change the username in the login screen. If you select No, the user is able to type a different user name in the login screen. In the Properties section, specify details related to the end users' interaction with the login screen they will use to authenticate for access. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionDisplay NameDisplay NameDisplay NameOptionally provide a name that the system will display to the end users on the Horizon Cloud login screen to identify which RADIUS system they are using to authenticate for access.Optionally provide a name that the system will display to the end users on the Horizon Cloud login screen to identify which RADIUS system they are using to authenticate for access.Horizon CloudDisplay HintDisplay HintDisplay HintOptionally enter a text string that the system will display in the message on the login screen to direct users to enter the correct RADIUS passcode.Optionally enter a text string that the system will display in the message on the login screen to direct users to enter the correct RADIUS passcode.Name ID SuffixName ID SuffixName ID SuffixOptionally enter a text string such as a domain name that you want appended to the user's name before it is sent to the authentication server. For example, when you want a user to type user1 into the login screen, but you want the system to send user1@example.com to the authentication server, you would enter @example.com into this field. Optionally enter a text string such as a domain name that you want appended to the user's name before it is sent to the authentication server. For example, when you want a user to type user1 into the login screen, but you want the system to send user1@example.com to the authentication server, you would enter @example.com into this field. user1user1@example.comNumber of IterationsNumber of IterationsNumber of IterationsEnter the maximum number of failed authentication attempts that a user is allowed when attempting to log in using this RADIUS system.Enter the maximum number of failed authentication attempts that a user is allowed when attempting to log in using this RADIUS system.Maintain UsernameMaintain UsernameMaintain UsernameSelect Yes to maintain the user's RADIUS username during authentication to Horizon Cloud. When Yes is selected: The user must have the same username credentials for RADIUS as for their Active Directory authentication to Horizon Cloud. The user cannot change the username in the login screen. If you select No, the user is able to type a different user name in the login screen. Select Yes to maintain the user's RADIUS username during authentication to Horizon Cloud. When Yes is selected: YesHorizon CloudYesThe user must have the same username credentials for RADIUS as for their Active Directory authentication to Horizon Cloud. The user must have the same username credentials for RADIUS as for their Active Directory authentication to Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudThe user cannot change the username in the login screen. The user cannot change the username in the login screen. If you select No, the user is able to type a different user name in the login screen. NoIn the Primary Server section, specify details about the authentication server. Option Description Host Name / IP Address Enter the DNS name or the IP address of the authentication server. Shared Secret Enter the secret for communicating with the authentication server. The value must be identical to the server-configured value. Authentication Port Specify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving authentication traffic. The default is 1812. Accounting Port Optionally specify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving accounting traffic. The default is 1813. Mechanism Select the authentication protocol that is supported by the specified authentication server and which you want the deployed node to use. Server Timeout Specify the number of seconds that the node should wait for a response from the authentication server. After this number of seconds, a retry is sent if the server does not respond. Max Number of Retries Specify the maximum number of times the node should retry failed requests to the authentication server. Realm Prefix Optionally provide a string which the system will place at the beginning of the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. The user account location is called the realm. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm prefix of DOMAIN-A\ was specified here, the system sends DOMAIN-A\user1 to the authentication server. If you do not specify a realm prefix, only the entered user name is sent. Realm Suffix Optionally provide a string which the system will append to the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm suffix of @example.com was specified here, the system sends user1@example.com to the authentication server. In the Primary Server section, specify details about the authentication server. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionHost Name / IP AddressHost Name / IP AddressHost Name / IP AddressEnter the DNS name or the IP address of the authentication server.Enter the DNS name or the IP address of the authentication server.Shared SecretShared SecretShared SecretEnter the secret for communicating with the authentication server. The value must be identical to the server-configured value.Enter the secret for communicating with the authentication server. The value must be identical to the server-configured value.Authentication PortAuthentication PortAuthentication PortSpecify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving authentication traffic. The default is 1812.Specify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving authentication traffic. The default is 1812.Accounting PortAccounting PortAccounting PortOptionally specify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving accounting traffic. The default is 1813.Optionally specify the UDP port configured on the authentication server for sending or receiving accounting traffic. The default is 1813.MechanismMechanismMechanismSelect the authentication protocol that is supported by the specified authentication server and which you want the deployed node to use.Select the authentication protocol that is supported by the specified authentication server and which you want the deployed node to use.Server TimeoutServer TimeoutServer TimeoutSpecify the number of seconds that the node should wait for a response from the authentication server. After this number of seconds, a retry is sent if the server does not respond.Specify the number of seconds that the node should wait for a response from the authentication server. After this number of seconds, a retry is sent if the server does not respond.Max Number of RetriesMax Number of RetriesMax Number of RetriesSpecify the maximum number of times the node should retry failed requests to the authentication server.Specify the maximum number of times the node should retry failed requests to the authentication server.Realm PrefixRealm PrefixRealm PrefixOptionally provide a string which the system will place at the beginning of the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. The user account location is called the realm. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm prefix of DOMAIN-A\ was specified here, the system sends DOMAIN-A\user1 to the authentication server. If you do not specify a realm prefix, only the entered user name is sent. Optionally provide a string which the system will place at the beginning of the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. The user account location is called the realm. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm prefix of DOMAIN-A\ was specified here, the system sends DOMAIN-A\user1 to the authentication server. If you do not specify a realm prefix, only the entered user name is sent. user1DOMAIN-A\DOMAIN-A\user1Realm SuffixRealm SuffixRealm SuffixOptionally provide a string which the system will append to the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm suffix of @example.com was specified here, the system sends user1@example.com to the authentication server.Optionally provide a string which the system will append to the user name when the name is sent to the authentication server. For example, if the user name is entered as user1 on the login screen and a realm suffix of @example.com was specified here, the system sends user1@example.com to the authentication server.user1user1@example.comIn the Secondary Server section, optionally specify details about an auxiliary authentication server. You can configure a secondary authentication server to provide for high availability. Set the Auxiliary Server toggle to Yes and complete the fields as described for the Primary Server section. Auxiliary ServerYesClick Save & Exit. A confirmation message appears asking you to confirm the start of the workflow. Click Save & Exit. Save & ExitA confirmation message appears asking you to confirm the start of the workflow. Click Yes to start the workflow. Click Yes to start the workflow. YesResultsUntil the system is finished deploying the elements for supporting Internet-enabled desktops, the node summary page's Internet Enabled Desktops section shows Pending status. The following screenshot is an illustration of that section shortly after starting the workflow. PendingWhen the workflow is completed, the status will show as Ready and load balancer FQDN will be displayed in the page. ReadyNote:When running this workflow for a node in Microsoft Azure China, the process can take longer than an hour to complete. The process is subject to geographic network issues that can cause slow download speeds as the binaries are downloaded from the cloud control plane. What to do nextEnsure you have a CNAME record in your DNS server to map the auto-generated public FQDN of the node's deployed load balancer to the FQDN that you entered in the deployment wizard. See Obtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS Server for details. Obtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS ServerIf you specified RADIUS two-factor authentication for the end users' desktops from this node, you must configure your RADIUS system with the node's Unified Access Gateway load balancer public IP address as a client allowed to make requests of that RADIUS system. The node's Unified Access Gateway instances authenticate requests from the RADIUS system through that address. Unified Access GatewayUnified Access GatewayParent topic:Managing Your Horizon Cloud NodesVMware, Inc x 