VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineWhen your end users connect to Horizon Cloud using the Horizon Client, they can work with their assigned desktops or remote applications. Horizon CloudHorizon ClientAbout this taskThese steps describe using Horizon Client for the first time to launch a desktop provided by a Horizon Cloud node. Horizon ClientHorizon CloudImportant:If you are assigning URL redirection to your end users, they must install their Horizon Client with the URL Content Redirection feature enabled for them to take advantage of that feature. The client must be installed using the command line to enable URL Content Redirection in the client. As a starting point to learn about this area, see these topics in the Horizon Client documentation: Horizon ClientHorizon ClientInstalling Horizon Client for Windows from the Command Line Installing Horizon Client for Windows from the Command Line Installing Horizon Client for Windows from the Command LineClicking URL Links That Open Outside of Horizon Client Clicking URL Links That Open Outside of Horizon Client Clicking URL Links That Open Outside of Horizon ClientPrerequisitesFamiliarize yourself with the most up-to-date information regarding VMware Horizon Clients. For example, to check for up-to-date Horizon Client support information, see the VMware Product Interoperability Matrixes at https://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.php and to see the respective documentation, see the Horizon Client documentation page at https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Horizon-Client/index.html. Familiarize yourself with the most up-to-date information regarding VMware Horizon Clients. For example, to check for up-to-date Horizon Client support information, see the VMware Product Interoperability Matrixes at https://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.php and to see the respective documentation, see the Horizon Client documentation page at https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Horizon-Client/index.html. VMware Horizon ClientsHorizon Clienthttps://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.phpHorizon Clienthttps://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Horizon-Client/index.htmlFrom your organization's DNS information, obtain the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) that your organization has associated in its domain name system (DNS) for end user connections to this node, such as desktops.mycorp.example.com. For example, when the Horizon Cloud node in Microsoft Azure is configured to use Unified Access Gateway for end user connections, your organization has a DNS CNAME or A record that maps the FQDN that you provided in the deployment wizard to the auto-generated public FQDN of the node's deployed load balancer. See Obtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS Server for a description of this auto-generated public FQDN. From your organization's DNS information, obtain the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) that your organization has associated in its domain name system (DNS) for end user connections to this node, such as desktops.mycorp.example.com. desktops.mycorp.example.comFor example, when the Horizon Cloud node in Microsoft Azure is configured to use Unified Access Gateway for end user connections, your organization has a DNS CNAME or A record that maps the FQDN that you provided in the deployment wizard to the auto-generated public FQDN of the node's deployed load balancer. See Obtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS Server for a description of this auto-generated public FQDN. Horizon CloudUnified Access GatewayObtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS ServerIf you want those Horizon clients that have implemented the client retry feature to automatically retry the connection when the system has to power on the underlying desktop VM or farm server VM, set the Enable Client Retry option to Yes in the Administration Console's General Settings page. For details about that option, see Edit General Settings. The Horizon Client for Windows and Horizon Client for Mac starting with version 4.8 and later have this feature implemented. If you want those Horizon clients that have implemented the client retry feature to automatically retry the connection when the system has to power on the underlying desktop VM or farm server VM, set the Enable Client Retry option to Yes in the Administration Console's General Settings page. For details about that option, see Edit General Settings. The Horizon Client for Windows and Horizon Client for Mac starting with version 4.8 and later have this feature implemented. Enable Client RetryYesEdit General SettingsProcedureStart the Horizon Client. Start the Horizon Client. Horizon ClientSelect the choices in the Horizon Client for adding a new server. Select the choices in the Horizon Client for adding a new server. Horizon ClientIn the new server configuration, enter the name that was added to your DNS for end-user connections, for example, desktops.mycorp.com. In the new server configuration, enter the name that was added to your DNS for end-user connections, for example, desktops.mycorp.com. desktops.mycorp.comEnter the credentials for your Active Directory user in the authentication dialog box. Enter the credentials for your Active Directory user in the authentication dialog box. If RADIUS two-factor authentication is configured for this node, enter the RADIUS credentials. If RADIUS two-factor authentication is configured for this node, enter the RADIUS credentials. From the displayed list of entitled desktops and remote applications, launch the one you want to use. When the underlying desktop VM or RDSH server VM is powered off, due to any power managed schedules configured in the VDI desktop assignment or RDSH farm, the system starts powering on the VM in response to the launch request. If you are running version 4.8 or later of Horizon Client for Windows or Horizon Client for Mac and you have the Enable Client Retry option set to Yes in the Administration Console's General Settings, the client displays a message describing the connection will be made as soon as the desktop is ready and the estimated time it might take. The following screenshot is an illustration of the message that displays in Horizon Client for Windows version 4.8 when the client retry mechanism is in place and the system is powering on the underlying VM. From the displayed list of entitled desktops and remote applications, launch the one you want to use. When the underlying desktop VM or RDSH server VM is powered off, due to any power managed schedules configured in the VDI desktop assignment or RDSH farm, the system starts powering on the VM in response to the launch request. If you are running version 4.8 or later of Horizon Client for Windows or Horizon Client for Mac and you have the Enable Client Retry option set to Yes in the Administration Console's General Settings, the client displays a message describing the connection will be made as soon as the desktop is ready and the estimated time it might take. Enable Client RetryYesThe following screenshot is an illustration of the message that displays in Horizon Client for Windows version 4.8 when the client retry mechanism is in place and the system is powering on the underlying VM. To configure additional options that apply when you launch the selected desktop or application, right-click the icon and make your selection. Parent topic:Access Desktops and ApplicationsVMware, Inc x 