VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou must first deploy a node into your Microsoft Azure capacity and complete some steps in the Administration Console before you begin provisioning VDI desktops, RDSH session-based desktops, or RDSH-based remote applications in Horizon Cloud and making them available to your end users. Horizon CloudFulfill the prerequisites, as described in the separate prerequisites checklist document. You can open that document from this PDF link or navigate to it from the Horizon Cloud documentation landing page. Fulfill the prerequisites, as described in the separate prerequisites checklist document. You can open that document from this PDF link or navigate to it from the Horizon Cloud documentation landing page. this PDF linkHorizon Clouddocumentation landing pagePerform the preparatory tasks outside of Horizon Cloud. See Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure. Perform the preparatory tasks outside of Horizon Cloud. See Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure. Horizon CloudSee Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure.Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureDeploy the node. See Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure. Deploy the node. See Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure. See Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure.Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureRegister your Active Directory domain with the deployed node, which includes providing the name of a domain-join account. See Register Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory Domain. Register your Active Directory domain with the deployed node, which includes providing the name of a domain-join account. See Register Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory Domain. See Register Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory Domain.Register Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory DomainGive the Horizon Cloud Super Administrators role to an Active Directory group that includes that domain-join account as a member. Important: You must ensure that the domain join account you enter when registering the domain is also in one of the Active Directory groups to which you assign the Horizon Cloud Super Administrators role. The system's domain-join operations depend on the domain join account having the Horizon Cloud Super Administrators role. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups Give the Horizon Cloud Super Administrators role to an Active Directory group that includes that domain-join account as a member. Horizon CloudImportant:You must ensure that the domain join account you enter when registering the domain is also in one of the Active Directory groups to which you assign the Horizon Cloud Super Administrators role. The system's domain-join operations depend on the domain join account having the Horizon Cloud Super Administrators role. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups Horizon CloudHorizon CloudSee Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsAssign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsUpload SSL certificates to the node directly, using the node's summary page in the Administration Console, if you plan to have one or both of the following: VMware Identity Manager™™ configured with its connector pointing to the node-manager VM's IP address. Clients connecting directly to the node-manager VM IP address. If your connections always use the node's load balancer which goes to the node's Unified Access Gateway instances, or your VMware Identity Manager™™ is configured with its connector pointing to that load balancer, uploading the SSL certificate to the node directly is not necessary. In general, uploading an SSL certificate to the node directly is a recommended practice, because that ensures clients that might make direct connections to the node environment can have trusted connections. See Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct Connections. Upload SSL certificates to the node directly, using the node's summary page in the Administration Console, if you plan to have one or both of the following: VMware Identity Manager™™ configured with its connector pointing to the node-manager VM's IP address. VMware Identity Manager™™ configured with its connector pointing to the node-manager VM's IP address. VMware Identity Manager™Clients connecting directly to the node-manager VM IP address. Clients connecting directly to the node-manager VM IP address. If your connections always use the node's load balancer which goes to the node's Unified Access Gateway instances, or your VMware Identity Manager™™ is configured with its connector pointing to that load balancer, uploading the SSL certificate to the node directly is not necessary. In general, uploading an SSL certificate to the node directly is a recommended practice, because that ensures clients that might make direct connections to the node environment can have trusted connections. Unified Access GatewayVMware Identity Manager™See Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct Connections. See Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct Connections.Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct ConnectionsImport a master image. See Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure. Import a master image. See Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure. See Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure.Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureDepending on whether your master image is for provisioning VDI desktops or for RDSH-based session desktops and RDSH-based remote applications, perform one or more of the following steps as appropriate. In a master image for VDI desktops, install the third-party applications you want your end users to use in their VDI desktops, optimize the image for sysprep best practices, and configure other applicable customizations, such as setting desktop wallpaper, and so on. Customize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual Machine. In a master RDS-enabled server image for provisioning RDSH-based session desktops and remote applications, install the third-party applications you want to provide to your end users from that RDS image and configure other applicable customizations, such as setting desktop wallpaper, installing the NVIDIA GPU drivers (for NV-series-based images), and so on. Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual Machine. Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image. Note: If you created the master image manually instead of using the Import Image wizard and you want to use your User Environment Manager environment with your desktops, you would also install the User Environment Manager agent. The agent is automatically installed when the image is created using the Import Image wizard. See Install the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual Machine. Important: As part of the configuration process, the master VM is joined to your domain. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of local administrator accounts on domain-joined VMs, you will not be able to log in to the master image to customize it until you configure the DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with those domain accounts you want used for customizing the image. For details, see Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. Depending on whether your master image is for provisioning VDI desktops or for RDSH-based session desktops and RDSH-based remote applications, perform one or more of the following steps as appropriate. In a master image for VDI desktops, install the third-party applications you want your end users to use in their VDI desktops, optimize the image for sysprep best practices, and configure other applicable customizations, such as setting desktop wallpaper, and so on. Customize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual Machine. In a master image for VDI desktops, install the third-party applications you want your end users to use in their VDI desktops, optimize the image for sysprep best practices, and configure other applicable customizations, such as setting desktop wallpaper, and so on. Customize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual Machine. Customize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual Machine. Customize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual Machine.Customize the Guest Windows Client Operating System of the Master VDI Desktop Virtual MachineIn a master RDS-enabled server image for provisioning RDSH-based session desktops and remote applications, install the third-party applications you want to provide to your end users from that RDS image and configure other applicable customizations, such as setting desktop wallpaper, installing the NVIDIA GPU drivers (for NV-series-based images), and so on. Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual Machine. Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image. In a master RDS-enabled server image for provisioning RDSH-based session desktops and remote applications, install the third-party applications you want to provide to your end users from that RDS image and configure other applicable customizations, such as setting desktop wallpaper, installing the NVIDIA GPU drivers (for NV-series-based images), and so on. Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual Machine. Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual Machine. Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual Machine.Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual MachineInstall NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image. Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image. Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image.Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master ImageNote:If you created the master image manually instead of using the Import Image wizard and you want to use your User Environment Manager environment with your desktops, you would also install the User Environment Manager agent. The agent is automatically installed when the image is created using the Import Image wizard. See Install the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual Machine. User Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerSee Install the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual Machine.Install the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual MachineImportant:As part of the configuration process, the master VM is joined to your domain. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of local administrator accounts on domain-joined VMs, you will not be able to log in to the master image to customize it until you configure the DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with those domain accounts you want used for customizing the image. For details, see Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. For details, see Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image.Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageConvert that master image into an assignable image, also known as sealing or publishing the image. See Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image. Convert that master image into an assignable image, also known as sealing or publishing the image. See Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image. See Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image.Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageTo provision session-based RDSH desktops and remote applications from a published master server image: Create a desktops RDSH farm to provide session desktops, and then create assignments to entitle end users to use those desktops. See Farms in Horizon Cloud and Create an RDSH Session Desktop Assignment. Create an applications RDSH farm to provide remote applications, add the applications to your application inventory, and then create assignments to entitle end users to use those remote applications. See Farms in Horizon Cloud, Importing New Applications from an RDSH Farm Using Auto-Scan from Farm, and Create a Remote Application Assignment. To provision session-based RDSH desktops and remote applications from a published master server image: Create a desktops RDSH farm to provide session desktops, and then create assignments to entitle end users to use those desktops. See Farms in Horizon Cloud and Create an RDSH Session Desktop Assignment. Create a desktops RDSH farm to provide session desktops, and then create assignments to entitle end users to use those desktops. See Farms in Horizon Cloud and Create an RDSH Session Desktop Assignment. See Farms in Horizon Cloud and Create an RDSH Session Desktop Assignment.Farms in Horizon CloudCreate an RDSH Session Desktop AssignmentCreate an applications RDSH farm to provide remote applications, add the applications to your application inventory, and then create assignments to entitle end users to use those remote applications. See Farms in Horizon Cloud, Importing New Applications from an RDSH Farm Using Auto-Scan from Farm, and Create a Remote Application Assignment. Create an applications RDSH farm to provide remote applications, add the applications to your application inventory, and then create assignments to entitle end users to use those remote applications. See Farms in Horizon Cloud, Importing New Applications from an RDSH Farm Using Auto-Scan from Farm, and Create a Remote Application Assignment. See Farms in Horizon Cloud, Importing New Applications from an RDSH Farm Using Auto-Scan from Farm, and Create a Remote Application Assignment.Farms in Horizon CloudImporting New Applications from an RDSH Farm Using Auto-Scan from FarmCreate a Remote Application AssignmentTo provision VDI desktops from a published master VDI desktop image, create a dedicated or floating VDI desktop assignment. See Create a Floating VDI Desktop Assignment and Create a Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignment. To provision VDI desktops from a published master VDI desktop image, create a dedicated or floating VDI desktop assignment. See Create a Floating VDI Desktop Assignment and Create a Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignment. See Create a Floating VDI Desktop Assignment and Create a Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignment.Create a Floating VDI Desktop AssignmentCreate a Dedicated VDI Desktop AssignmentWhen a node is deployed to have Internet-enabled desktops, you must create a CNAME record in your DNS server that maps the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) that you entered in the deployment wizard to the node's load balancer's auto-generated public FQDN. When a node is deployed with the Internet Enabled Desktops option set to Yes (the default), the deployed Unified Access Gateway is configured with a load balancer IP address that has an auto-generated public FQDN in the form vmw-hcs-nodeID-uag.region.cloudapp.azure.com, where nodeID is the node's UUID and region is the Microsoft Azure region where the node is located. In the deployment wizard, you provided: Your FQDN (for example, ourOrg.example.com or ourApps.ourOrg.example.com). This FQDN is the one which your end users use to access their desktops. An SSL certificate that is associated with that FQDN and which is signed by a trusted certificate authority. Your DNS server must map those two FQDNs. When the addresses are mapped, your end users can enter your provided FQDN as the server address in the Horizon Client or use with HTML Access to access the desktops served by that node. ourApps.ourOrg.example.com vwm-hcs-nodeID-uag.region.cloudapp.azure.comFor details on how to locate the load balancer's public FQDN in the Administration Console, see Obtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS Server. When a node is deployed to have Internet-enabled desktops, you must create a CNAME record in your DNS server that maps the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) that you entered in the deployment wizard to the node's load balancer's auto-generated public FQDN. When a node is deployed with the Internet Enabled Desktops option set to Yes (the default), the deployed Unified Access Gateway is configured with a load balancer IP address that has an auto-generated public FQDN in the form vmw-hcs-nodeID-uag.region.cloudapp.azure.com, where nodeID is the node's UUID and region is the Microsoft Azure region where the node is located. Internet Enabled DesktopsYesUnified Access Gatewayvmw-hcs-nodeID-uag.region.cloudapp.azure.comnodeIDregionnodeIDregionIn the deployment wizard, you provided: Your FQDN (for example, ourOrg.example.com or ourApps.ourOrg.example.com). This FQDN is the one which your end users use to access their desktops. Your FQDN (for example, ourOrg.example.com or ourApps.ourOrg.example.com). This FQDN is the one which your end users use to access their desktops. ourOrg.example.comourApps.ourOrg.example.comAn SSL certificate that is associated with that FQDN and which is signed by a trusted certificate authority. An SSL certificate that is associated with that FQDN and which is signed by a trusted certificate authority. Your DNS server must map those two FQDNs. When the addresses are mapped, your end users can enter your provided FQDN as the server address in the Horizon Client or use with HTML Access to access the desktops served by that node. ourApps.ourOrg.example.com vwm-hcs-nodeID-uag.region.cloudapp.azure.comnodeIDregionFor details on how to locate the load balancer's public FQDN in the Administration Console, see Obtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS Server. Obtain the FQDN of the Node's Load Balancer to Map in your DNS ServerWhen a node is deployed to have RADIUS two-factor authentication for its Internet-enabled desktops, you must configure your RADIUS system with the node's Unified Access Gateway load balancer public IP address as a client allowed to make requests of that RADIUS system. The node's Unified Access Gateway instances authenticate requests from the RADIUS system through that address. When a node is deployed to have RADIUS two-factor authentication for its Internet-enabled desktops, you must configure your RADIUS system with the node's Unified Access Gateway load balancer public IP address as a client allowed to make requests of that RADIUS system. The node's Unified Access Gateway instances authenticate requests from the RADIUS system through that address. Unified Access GatewayUnified Access GatewayAfter the above workflow steps are completed, your end users can launch their entitled desktops and remote applications using your FQDN in the Horizon Client or with HTML Access. You can find in-depth details on how to accomplish each workflow step in the topics that are linked from each step above or in the companion guide. See Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure. See Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure.Getting Started with VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureVMware, Inc x 