VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineIf you manually create a master virtual machine (VM) and you want to use your User Environment Manager environment with the desktop images, you must manually install the User Environment Manager agent into the master VM before converting it to an image. User Environment Manager provides various options for achieving the persistence of end-user data, settings, and profiles of desktops served by your node. User Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerAbout this taskAfter the Imported VMs page indicates that your master image VM has its agent-related status as active, you can connect to it using your RDP software and install the User Environment Manager agent into the underlying Windows operating system. User Environment ManagerFor this installation, a best practice is to use NoAD mode when configuring User Environment Manager. However, you can choose to install the User Environment Manager agent using its typical mode. The typical mode requires configuring the User Environment Manager Group Policy. For information, see the installation topics in the User Environment Manager product documentation. User Environment Manager product documentationNote:Image VMs created using the automated Import Desktop wizard already have the User Environment Manager agent installed. In those image VMs, the agent is installed using the typical mode choice. PrerequisitesVerify the Imported VMs page indicates the agent-related status is active for the VM. Obtain the VM's IP address as displayed on the Imported VMs page. Note:When using the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client as your RDP software to connect to the master VM, ensure it is the most up-to-date version. For example, the default RDP software in the Windows 7 operating system is not at a high enough version. The version must be version 8 or higher. Verify you have at least one of the following credentials (user name and password) to log in to the VM's guest Windows operating system: The credentials for the local administrator account that was specified in the Import Image wizard when this master image VM was created, as described in Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. The credentials for the local administrator account that was specified in the Import Image wizard when this master image VM was created, as described in Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure MarketplaceThe credentials for a domain account that is configured in the image VM's DaaS Direct Connect Users local group, as described in Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. The credentials for a domain account that is configured in the image VM's DaaS Direct Connect Users local group, as described in Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageImportant:By default, the installed Horizon agent software prevents using accounts other than the local administrator account to make RDP connections to the configured image. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of the local administrator account on domain-joined VMs, you must first configure the image VM's DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with the non-local domain accounts you want connecting to the VM to customize the image. For those steps, see Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageProcedureUse the VM's IP address in your RDP software to connect to the Windows operating system. If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Note: To access a VM that is running the agent-related software components, the version of the Remote Desktop Client must be version 8 or later. Otherwise, the connection fails. Using the most up-to-date Remote Desktop Client is recommended. Use the VM's IP address in your RDP software to connect to the Windows operating system. If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Note:To access a VM that is running the agent-related software components, the version of the Remote Desktop Client must be version 8 or later. Otherwise, the connection fails. Using the most up-to-date Remote Desktop Client is recommended. Log in to the Windows operating system using the user name and password that was specified in Import Image wizard when the master image VM was created. Enter the username as \username. This account is a local administration account. Note: If you configured the DaaS Direct Connect Users group with domain accounts, you can use one of those accounts to log in. In that case, enter the user name as domain\username where domain is the name of the domain. Log in to the Windows operating system using the user name and password that was specified in Import Image wizard when the master image VM was created. Enter the username as \username. This account is a local administration account. Note:If you configured the DaaS Direct Connect Users group with domain accounts, you can use one of those accounts to log in. In that case, enter the user name as domain\username where domain is the name of the domain. domain\usernamedomaindomainIn the Windows operating system, download the User Environment Manager zip package from the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure download page. Log in with your My VMware account credentials when prompted. In the Windows operating system, download the User Environment Manager zip package from the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure download page. User Environment ManagerVMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure download pageLog in with your My VMware account credentials when prompted. My VMwareUnzip the package and use the 64-bit .msi file to install User Environment Manager with the NoAD mode. Using NoAD mode is a best practice for this environment. However, you can choose to install the User Environment Manager agent using its typical mode. Unzip the package and use the 64-bit .msi file to install User Environment Manager with the NoAD mode. User Environment ManagerUsing NoAD mode is a best practice for this environment. However, you can choose to install the User Environment Manager agent using its typical mode. Sign out of the VM's Windows operating system. Sign out of the VM's Windows operating system. What to do nextConfigure a separate file server in your Microsoft Azure subscription that has at least SMB 2 enabled. Then configure User Environment Manager using that file server. If you installed the agent using the typical mode, also configure the GPO settings. See the User Environment Manager documentation topics in the User Environment Manager product documentation. User Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerUser Environment Manager product documentationParent topic:Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureVMware, Inc x 