VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou can perform several actions on the assignable images listed on the Administration Console's Images page. These assignable images are also referred to as sealed images or published images. When an image is sealed, the Images page shows it having Published status. ProcedureSelect Inventory > Images. Select Inventory > Images. Inventory > ImagesInventoryImagesClick the check box corresponding to the image you want to act on. Click the check box corresponding to the image you want to act on. Click one of the action buttons to perform an action on this image. Button Description Rename Even though you see the Rename action in the page, this action is not used for images in a Microsoft Azure environment. Duplicate The duplicate workflow is typically used when updating a farm's or VDI desktop assignment's underlying master base image, for example, to install or update applications in the base VM. Duplicating an existing image creates an image with the same configuration and a new name. For detailed steps of changing images used for farms and VDI desktop assignments, see Change RDS-Enabled Images Used for Farms and Change Images Used for VDI Desktop Assignments. When you click Duplicate, you must enter a name for the new duplicated VM. After you enter a new name and click Save, the system clones the sealed image's VM to make a new master VM, and lists the new master VM on the Imported VMs page. When you see that the Imported VMs page reports the new master VM's agent is active, you can log in to it and make changes. When you are finished making your changes, you convert the duplicate to an assignable (sealed) image by either using the Images page's New action or by selecting the image on the Imported VMs page and selecting Convert to Image. Note: As the system begins the cloning process, the original sealed image goes into Transition status for the first part of the process. After some time, the original sealed image returns to its original state. You can monitor the progress of the duplicate image on the Imported VMs page or using the Activity page. Update Agent Update the image's agent-related software components to a newer version. Clicking this button opens the Agent Update wizard. A blue dot appears next to the name of an image when agent updates are available for it. When you hover over that blue dot, a popup indicates all of the agent updates that are available for that image. For details, see one of the following topics: Update Agent Software for RDSH Images Update Agent Software for Images Used by Floating VDI Desktop Assignments Important: For dedicated VDI desktop assignments, you usually update the agents from the Assignments page instead of by updating the agents in the image. See Update Agent Software for Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignments. The User Environment Manager agent software in an image is not updated by the system's agent update capability. If you want to update the User Environment Manager agent software, follow the steps in Update the User Environment Manager Agent Software in Images. To perform one of the other available actions, click ... and select the drop-down option of your choice. Note: Even though the Download Bootstrap and Refresh Password actions are visible when an image is selected, those actions are not applicable to any one image. They are used when manually creating a master VM, as described in Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Drop-Down Option Description Delete Permanently deletes the selected image. Note: An image cannot be deleted if it is in use by an RDSH farm or a VDI desktop assignment. Publish For images used in farms or VDI desktop assignments, this action republishes a duplicated image to make it assignable again. This action is not available if the image already is an assignable (sealed) image. An assignable image is one that has Published status. Convert to Desktop Use this action only on images that have failed the publishing workflow and did not reach the Published status. This action converts the published image to an unsealed VM. The unsealed VM is listed on the Imported VMs page at that point. Caution: Use this action sparingly. Repeated use of this action on the same image can result in unexpected results and failure to seal the image when attempting to re-publish the image. As an example, if you create a new image, then run Publish on it and it reaches Published status, then you run Convert to Desktop on that image, then run Publish again, the sysprep process that happens in the publishing workflow can fail. If you again convert the image back to an unsealed image, from that point on, the image might always fail the publishing workflow. At that point, it is prudent to start fresh and make a new base image. Do not use this action on images that have successfully been published or have been used in farms or VDI desktop assignments or unexpected results can occur when you try to use an image that was re-published after being converted back to a desktop. In this situation, the sysprep process that happens when the system creates RDSH server VMs and desktop VMs can fail. Assign Image Even though you see this action in the Administration Console, this action is not used for images in a Microsoft Azure environment. Click one of the action buttons to perform an action on this image. ButtonButtonDescriptionDescriptionRename Rename Even though you see the Rename action in the page, this action is not used for images in a Microsoft Azure environment. Even though you see the Rename action in the page, this action is not used for images in a Microsoft Azure environment. RenameDuplicateDuplicateThe duplicate workflow is typically used when updating a farm's or VDI desktop assignment's underlying master base image, for example, to install or update applications in the base VM. Duplicating an existing image creates an image with the same configuration and a new name. For detailed steps of changing images used for farms and VDI desktop assignments, see Change RDS-Enabled Images Used for Farms and Change Images Used for VDI Desktop Assignments. When you click Duplicate, you must enter a name for the new duplicated VM. After you enter a new name and click Save, the system clones the sealed image's VM to make a new master VM, and lists the new master VM on the Imported VMs page. When you see that the Imported VMs page reports the new master VM's agent is active, you can log in to it and make changes. When you are finished making your changes, you convert the duplicate to an assignable (sealed) image by either using the Images page's New action or by selecting the image on the Imported VMs page and selecting Convert to Image. Note: As the system begins the cloning process, the original sealed image goes into Transition status for the first part of the process. After some time, the original sealed image returns to its original state. You can monitor the progress of the duplicate image on the Imported VMs page or using the Activity page. The duplicate workflow is typically used when updating a farm's or VDI desktop assignment's underlying master base image, for example, to install or update applications in the base VM. Duplicating an existing image creates an image with the same configuration and a new name. For detailed steps of changing images used for farms and VDI desktop assignments, see Change RDS-Enabled Images Used for Farms and Change Images Used for VDI Desktop Assignments. Change RDS-Enabled Images Used for FarmsChange Images Used for VDI Desktop AssignmentsWhen you click Duplicate, you must enter a name for the new duplicated VM. After you enter a new name and click Save, the system clones the sealed image's VM to make a new master VM, and lists the new master VM on the Imported VMs page. When you see that the Imported VMs page reports the new master VM's agent is active, you can log in to it and make changes. When you are finished making your changes, you convert the duplicate to an assignable (sealed) image by either using the Images page's New action or by selecting the image on the Imported VMs page and selecting Convert to Image. DuplicateSaveNewConvert to ImageNote:As the system begins the cloning process, the original sealed image goes into Transition status for the first part of the process. After some time, the original sealed image returns to its original state. You can monitor the progress of the duplicate image on the Imported VMs page or using the Activity page. Update AgentUpdate AgentUpdate the image's agent-related software components to a newer version. Clicking this button opens the Agent Update wizard. A blue dot appears next to the name of an image when agent updates are available for it. When you hover over that blue dot, a popup indicates all of the agent updates that are available for that image. For details, see one of the following topics: Update Agent Software for RDSH Images Update Agent Software for Images Used by Floating VDI Desktop Assignments Important: For dedicated VDI desktop assignments, you usually update the agents from the Assignments page instead of by updating the agents in the image. See Update Agent Software for Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignments. The User Environment Manager agent software in an image is not updated by the system's agent update capability. If you want to update the User Environment Manager agent software, follow the steps in Update the User Environment Manager Agent Software in Images. Update the image's agent-related software components to a newer version. Clicking this button opens the Agent Update wizard. A blue dot appears next to the name of an image when agent updates are available for it. When you hover over that blue dot, a popup indicates all of the agent updates that are available for that image. For details, see one of the following topics: Update Agent Software for RDSH Images Update Agent Software for RDSH Images Update Agent Software for RDSH ImagesUpdate Agent Software for Images Used by Floating VDI Desktop Assignments Update Agent Software for Images Used by Floating VDI Desktop Assignments Update Agent Software for Images Used by Floating VDI Desktop AssignmentsImportant:For dedicated VDI desktop assignments, you usually update the agents from the Assignments page instead of by updating the agents in the image. See Update Agent Software for Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignments. Update Agent Software for Dedicated VDI Desktop AssignmentsThe User Environment Manager agent software in an image is not updated by the system's agent update capability. If you want to update the User Environment Manager agent software, follow the steps in Update the User Environment Manager Agent Software in Images. User Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerUpdate the User Environment Manager Agent Software in ImagesTo perform one of the other available actions, click ... and select the drop-down option of your choice. Note:Even though the Download Bootstrap and Refresh Password actions are visible when an image is selected, those actions are not applicable to any one image. They are used when manually creating a master VM, as described in Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Download BootstrapRefresh PasswordManually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureDrop-Down OptionDrop-Down OptionDescriptionDescriptionDeleteDeletePermanently deletes the selected image. Note: An image cannot be deleted if it is in use by an RDSH farm or a VDI desktop assignment. Permanently deletes the selected image. Note:An image cannot be deleted if it is in use by an RDSH farm or a VDI desktop assignment. PublishPublishFor images used in farms or VDI desktop assignments, this action republishes a duplicated image to make it assignable again. This action is not available if the image already is an assignable (sealed) image. An assignable image is one that has Published status. For images used in farms or VDI desktop assignments, this action republishes a duplicated image to make it assignable again. This action is not available if the image already is an assignable (sealed) image. An assignable image is one that has Published status. Convert to DesktopConvert to DesktopUse this action only on images that have failed the publishing workflow and did not reach the Published status. This action converts the published image to an unsealed VM. The unsealed VM is listed on the Imported VMs page at that point. Caution: Use this action sparingly. Repeated use of this action on the same image can result in unexpected results and failure to seal the image when attempting to re-publish the image. As an example, if you create a new image, then run Publish on it and it reaches Published status, then you run Convert to Desktop on that image, then run Publish again, the sysprep process that happens in the publishing workflow can fail. If you again convert the image back to an unsealed image, from that point on, the image might always fail the publishing workflow. At that point, it is prudent to start fresh and make a new base image. Do not use this action on images that have successfully been published or have been used in farms or VDI desktop assignments or unexpected results can occur when you try to use an image that was re-published after being converted back to a desktop. In this situation, the sysprep process that happens when the system creates RDSH server VMs and desktop VMs can fail. Use this action only on images that have failed the publishing workflow and did not reach the Published status. This action converts the published image to an unsealed VM. The unsealed VM is listed on the Imported VMs page at that point. Caution:Use this action sparingly. Repeated use of this action on the same image can result in unexpected results and failure to seal the image when attempting to re-publish the image. As an example, if you create a new image, then run Publish on it and it reaches Published status, then you run Convert to Desktop on that image, then run Publish again, the sysprep process that happens in the publishing workflow can fail. If you again convert the image back to an unsealed image, from that point on, the image might always fail the publishing workflow. At that point, it is prudent to start fresh and make a new base image. Do not use this action on images that have successfully been published or have been used in farms or VDI desktop assignments or unexpected results can occur when you try to use an image that was re-published after being converted back to a desktop. In this situation, the sysprep process that happens when the system creates RDSH server VMs and desktop VMs can fail. Assign Image Assign Image Even though you see this action in the Administration Console, this action is not used for images in a Microsoft Azure environment. Even though you see this action in the Administration Console, this action is not used for images in a Microsoft Azure environment. View details about the image by clicking the image's name. The screen displays the image's details page along with buttons for those actions you can perform on the image from its details page. For example, this screen is the information for an RDS-enabled assignable server image named WinSvr2016. This image belongs to a node named East-Coast-Stores and is referenced by two RDSH farms. Parent topic:Managing Assignable ImagesVMware, Inc x 