VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineThe Administration Console provides a single pane to use for monitoring an end user's use of virtual desktops and applications and troubleshooting issues. After you configure the role-based access to the Administration Console for your help desk administrators, they can log in to the Administration Console and use the console's Search feature to look up users. For a particular user, the help desk administrator can then look up that user's sessions to troubleshoot problems and perform some specific desktop maintenance operations. In your organization, you might have people in the role of helping your end users with any issues those end users might have when using their virtual desktops and remote applications provided by your environment. You might also have people who you want monitoring the end users' sessions or monitoring the desktop instances and farm server instances to identify issues that might potentially impact the sessions. In the Administration Console, the following items support performing those help-desk-related tasks: Give your help desk workers' My VMware accounts to the Administration Console access list, with the appropriate help-desk-related role. The first login screen when logging in to the Administration Console uses My VMware account credentials. For the My VMware accounts, Horizon Cloud provides two predefined help-desk-related roles: Customer Helpdesk and Customer Helpdesk Readonly. You add your help desk workers' My VMware accounts using the Administration Console's General Settings page or the Getting Started page. For the steps, see Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization. Give your help desk workers' My VMware accounts to the Administration Console access list, with the appropriate help-desk-related role. The first login screen when logging in to the Administration Console uses My VMware account credentials. For the My VMware accounts, Horizon Cloud provides two predefined help-desk-related roles: Customer Helpdesk and Customer Helpdesk Readonly. You add your help desk workers' My VMware accounts using the Administration Console's General Settings page or the Getting Started page. For the steps, see Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization. Horizon CloudCustomer HelpdeskCustomer Helpdesk ReadonlyGive Administrative Access to People in Your OrganizationGive your help desk workers' Active Directory accounts the appropriate Horizon Cloud help-desk-related role. The second login screen when logging in to the Administration Console uses Active Directory account credentials. For the Active Directory accounts, Horizon Cloud provides two predefined help-desk-related roles: Help Desk Administrator and Help Desk Read Only Administrator. For the steps, see Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Note: Horizon Cloud roles are assigned at the Active Directory group level. The help desk workers' Active Directory accounts must be in an Active Directory group to be granted the roles. Give your help desk workers' Active Directory accounts the appropriate Horizon Cloud help-desk-related role. The second login screen when logging in to the Administration Console uses Active Directory account credentials. For the Active Directory accounts, Horizon Cloud provides two predefined help-desk-related roles: Help Desk Administrator and Help Desk Read Only Administrator. For the steps, see Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Horizon CloudHorizon CloudHelp Desk AdministratorHelp Desk Read Only AdministratorAssign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsNote:Horizon Cloud roles are assigned at the Active Directory group level. The help desk workers' Active Directory accounts must be in an Active Directory group to be granted the roles. Horizon CloudThe Administration Console's search feature. The help desk workers can use this feature to search for a specific end user or VM (desktop instance or farm server instance). The Administration Console's search feature. The help desk workers can use this feature to search for a specific end user or VM (desktop instance or farm server instance). The user card feature. Using a particular user's user card, help desk workers can examine that user's sessions to troubleshoot problems and perform some specific desktop maintenance operations. The operations available to the help desk worker depend on the help-desk-related role assigned that person's Active Directory account. The user card feature. Using a particular user's user card, help desk workers can examine that user's sessions to troubleshoot problems and perform some specific desktop maintenance operations. The operations available to the help desk worker depend on the help-desk-related role assigned that person's Active Directory account. Using the Console's Search FeatureUse the Horizon Cloud Administration Console's search feature to locate a specific user or virtual machine (VM) by name in your environment. Using the Console's Search FeatureUsing the Console's Search FeatureHorizon CloudThe User Card in the Horizon Cloud Administration ConsoleUse the Horizon Cloud Administration Console's user card feature as a dashboard to work with a specific user's assigned resources, such as that user's assignments. The User Card in the Horizon Cloud Administration ConsoleThe User Card in the Horizon Cloud Administration ConsoleHorizon CloudVMware, Inc x 