VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineAfter you publish your initial RDS-enabled image and create farms using it, you can make changes to that image and push the changes to all of the farms using that image. A typical reason to update an already published image is to install additional third-party applications or other features. About this taskNote:If you are changing the RDS-enabled image to update the Horizon Cloud agent-related components, you use a different procedure. See Update Agent Software for RDSH Images. Horizon CloudUpdate Agent Software for RDSH ImagesAt a high-level, the workflow to update an in-use image is: Duplicate the existing image to create an image with the same configuration and a new name. In the duplication process, the system clones the sealed image's virtual machine (VM) to make a new unpublished master VM, and lists the new master VM on the Imported VMs page. Duplicate the existing image to create an image with the same configuration and a new name. In the duplication process, the system clones the sealed image's virtual machine (VM) to make a new unpublished master VM, and lists the new master VM on the Imported VMs page. When you see that the Imported VMs page reports the new master VM's agent is active, log in to the VM and make your desired changes to that duplicate VM. When you see that the Imported VMs page reports the new master VM's agent is active, log in to the VM and make your desired changes to that duplicate VM. Use Convert to Image to publish that duplicate VM, making it an assignable (sealed) image. Use Convert to Image to publish that duplicate VM, making it an assignable (sealed) image. Convert to ImageEdit the RDSH farms that are using the original image to use the newly updated duplicate image instead of the original one. Edit the RDSH farms that are using the original image to use the newly updated duplicate image instead of the original one. PrerequisitesVerify you have local administrator account credentials to log in to the image and update it. This administrator account is the same one that was used to publish the image using the New Image workflow. See Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image. Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageNote:When using the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client as your RDP software to connect to the master VM, ensure it is the most up-to-date version. For example, the default RDP software in the Windows 7 operating system is not at a high enough version. The version must be version 8 or higher. ProcedureIn the Administration Console, navigate to Inventory > Images. In the Administration Console, navigate to Inventory > Images. Inventory > ImagesInventoryImagesSelect the check box for the image and click Duplicate. In the dialog box, enter a name for the duplicate image. After you enter a new name and click Save, the system clones the sealed image's VM to make a new master VM, and lists the new master VM on the Imported VMs page. Note: As the system begins the cloning process, the original sealed image goes into Transition status for the first part of the process. After some time, the original sealed image returns to its original state. Select the check box for the image and click Duplicate. DuplicateIn the dialog box, enter a name for the duplicate image. After you enter a new name and click Save, the system clones the sealed image's VM to make a new master VM, and lists the new master VM on the Imported VMs page. SaveNote:As the system begins the cloning process, the original sealed image goes into Transition status for the first part of the process. After some time, the original sealed image returns to its original state. Navigate to Inventory > Imported VMs to see when the Imported VMs page reports the new master VM's agent is active. Navigate to Inventory > Imported VMs to see when the Imported VMs page reports the new master VM's agent is active. Inventory > Imported VMsInventoryImported VMsWhen you see on the Imported VMs page that the new master VM's agent is active, use the VM's IP address and your RDP software to connect to the RDS-enabled Windows server operating system. If the original image was created with a public IP address, the new duplicate VM has a public IP address and you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the original image was not created with a public IP address, the new duplicate VM has an IP that is private in your Microsoft Azure cloud environment, and you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the VM over your corporate network When you see on the Imported VMs page that the new master VM's agent is active, use the VM's IP address and your RDP software to connect to the RDS-enabled Windows server operating system. If the original image was created with a public IP address, the new duplicate VM has a public IP address and you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the original image was created with a public IP address, the new duplicate VM has a public IP address and you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the original image was not created with a public IP address, the new duplicate VM has an IP that is private in your Microsoft Azure cloud environment, and you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the VM over your corporate network If the original image was not created with a public IP address, the new duplicate VM has an IP that is private in your Microsoft Azure cloud environment, and you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the VM. Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the VM over your corporate network Use your VPN and RDP into the VM over your corporate network Log in to the RDS-enabled Windows server operating system using the username and password that was supplied in the Import Image wizard when the image was created. If using the local administrator name, enter the username as \username. Log in to the RDS-enabled Windows server operating system using the username and password that was supplied in the Import Image wizard when the image was created. If using the local administrator name, enter the username as \username. In the Windows server operating system, perform your intended updates. If you are installing additional third-party applications, see the steps described in Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual Machine. In the Windows server operating system, perform your intended updates. If you are installing additional third-party applications, see the steps described in Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual Machine. Customize the Guest Windows Server Operating System of the Master Server Image Virtual MachineReturn to the Imported VMs page, select the check box for that duplicate VM, and click More > Convert to Image. The system takes the image, which was duplicated and then updated, through its standard publishing process. The image is displayed on the Images page. When the publishing process is complete, the image has the Published status on the Images page. Return to the Imported VMs page, select the check box for that duplicate VM, and click More > Convert to Image. More > Convert to ImageMoreConvert to ImageThe system takes the image, which was duplicated and then updated, through its standard publishing process. The image is displayed on the Images page. When the publishing process is complete, the image has the Published status on the Images page. When you see that the duplicated and updated image is in Published status, update each farm that is using the original image to use the new duplicate image instead, the image which now has your changes in it. In each farm's details page, click the General Settings Edit link to open a window, select the new duplicate image, and save. When you see that the duplicated and updated image is in Published status, update each farm that is using the original image to use the new duplicate image instead, the image which now has your changes in it. In each farm's details page, click the General Settings Edit link to open a window, select the new duplicate image, and save. EditResultsThe farms you update automatically delete and re-create their server instances using the updated image. What to do nextWhen you have updated the farms that are using the original image and can determine the original image is no longer needed by your organization, use the Images page to delete the original image. Deleting the original image is a best practice, to prevent other administrators in your organization from using an image that has down-level software. Parent topic:Managing Assignable ImagesVMware, Inc x 