VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineOn the Identity Management page, you can add, edit, and configure those identity management providers you want to use with your Horizon Cloud environment. Horizon CloudThe Identity Management page displays the currently configured providers, including the following information for each. Status - Current status of the configured provider. Hover on icon to view status. Status - Current status of the configured provider. Hover on icon to view status. Identity Manager URL - URL of the provider. Identity Manager URL - URL of the provider. Timeout SSO Token - Timeout value in minutes. Timeout SSO Token - Timeout value in minutes. Data Center - Displays a number that corresponds to the node's software version for the specific node that is configured with this particular provider. This number is the same as the node's version number that is listed in the node's details page. See the description of the node's details page in Capacity Page. Data Center - Displays a number that corresponds to the node's software version for the specific node that is configured with this particular provider. This number is the same as the node's version number that is listed in the node's details page. See the description of the node's details page in Capacity Page. Capacity PageTenant Address - The node-related address that you configured this provider to point to, and which you tell your end users to make their connections to connect to Horizon Cloud. This address is typically the FQDN that your organization's DNS records map to the node's load balancer FQDN or to the node's tenant appliance IP address. The node's tenant application IP address is listed in the node's details page. Tenant Address - The node-related address that you configured this provider to point to, and which you tell your end users to make their connections to connect to Horizon Cloud. This address is typically the FQDN that your organization's DNS records map to the node's load balancer FQDN or to the node's tenant appliance IP address. The node's tenant application IP address is listed in the node's details page. Horizon CloudTo configure a new identity provider for one of your nodes, see the information in Integrate a Horizon Cloud Node with a VMware Identity Manager™ Environment and follow the steps in Configure a Horizon Cloud Node for VMware Identity Manager™. Integrate a Horizon Cloud Node with a VMware Identity Manager™ EnvironmentConfigure a Horizon Cloud Node for VMware Identity Manager™To edit the information for an existing configuration: Select the listed configuration. Select the listed configuration. Click Edit. Click Edit. EditEdit information as described below. Field Description Timeout SSO Token Timeout value in minutes. Tenant Address Address of the tenant appliance. For a node, you enter here the address with which the VMware Identity Manager™ environment that is specified in the VMware Identity Manager URL field is configured to point to. You must configure your VMware Identity Manager™ environment to point to the node, either the node's load balancer FQDN or to the node's tenant appliance IP address. Whatever address you used in your VMware Identity Manager™ environment to point to the node, specify that address in this field. Edit information as described below. Field Field Description Description Timeout SSO Token Timeout SSO Token Timeout value in minutes. Timeout value in minutes. Tenant Address Tenant Address Address of the tenant appliance. For a node, you enter here the address with which the VMware Identity Manager™ environment that is specified in the VMware Identity Manager URL field is configured to point to. You must configure your VMware Identity Manager™ environment to point to the node, either the node's load balancer FQDN or to the node's tenant appliance IP address. Whatever address you used in your VMware Identity Manager™ environment to point to the node, specify that address in this field. Address of the tenant appliance. For a node, you enter here the address with which the VMware Identity Manager™ environment that is specified in the VMware Identity Manager URL field is configured to point to. You must configure your VMware Identity Manager™ environment to point to the node, either the node's load balancer FQDN or to the node's tenant appliance IP address. Whatever address you used in your VMware Identity Manager™ environment to point to the node, specify that address in this field. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager URLVMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™Click Save. Click Save. SaveTo remove one of the configurations: Select the configuration in the list. Select the configuration in the list. Click Remove. Click Remove. RemoveClick Delete to confirm. Click Delete to confirm. DeleteTo configure how Horizon Cloud uses the configured identity management providers: Horizon CloudClick Configure. Click Configure. ConfigureEdit settings as described below. Field Description Force Remote Users to Identity Manager Select YES to block remote user access except through the identity management provider. Option only displays if that provider status is green. Force Internal Users to Identity Manager Select YES to block internal user access except through the identity management provider. Option only displays if that provider status is green. Edit settings as described below. Field Field Description Description Force Remote Users to Identity Manager Force Remote Users to Identity Manager Force Remote Users to Identity Manager Select YES to block remote user access except through the identity management provider. Option only displays if that provider status is green. Select YES to block remote user access except through the identity management provider. Option only displays if that provider status is green. Force Internal Users to Identity Manager Force Internal Users to Identity Manager Force Internal Users to Identity Manager Select YES to block internal user access except through the identity management provider. Option only displays if that provider status is green. Select YES to block internal user access except through the identity management provider. Option only displays if that provider status is green. Click Save. Click Save. SaveParent topic:About the Settings IconVMware, Inc x 