VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou create floating VDI desktop assignments using the Assignments page. About this taskFor general information about desktop assignments, see Types of Desktop Assignments. Types of Desktop AssignmentsUse these steps to assign a floating VDI desktop to your end users. To assign another type of desktop, see the subtopics listed in Creating Desktop Assignments in Horizon Cloud. Creating Desktop Assignments in Horizon CloudPrerequisitesVerify that you have at least one published image, with a Microsoft Windows client operating system. You cannot create a floating VDI desktop assignment without such an image. To verify, navigate to the Images page and make sure it lists an appropriate image. For steps on creating a published image, see Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image. Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageProcedureStart the New Assignment workflow by clicking Assign and clicking New. Start the New Assignment workflow by clicking Assign and clicking New. AssignNewIn the New Assignment start screen, click the Desktops icon. The New Desktop Assignment window opens to the first wizard step. In the New Assignment start screen, click the Desktops icon. The New Desktop Assignment window opens to the first wizard step. Select Floating to create an assignment for a floating VDI desktop. Select Floating to create an assignment for a floating VDI desktop. FloatingComplete the selections on the Definition step and then click Next. Note: You might have to use the scroll bar to see all of the required fields. Option Description Location Select the location of the node from which you want the desktops to be provided. Node Select the node. Desktop Model Select the model to use for the desktop instances. The desktop model defines the set of underlying resources that will be used when the desktop instances are created, in terms of capacity (compute, storage, and so on). The available choices map to standard VM sizes that are available in Microsoft Azure. Domain Select the Active Directory domain registered with your environment. Join Domain Select Yes so that the desktop instances are automatically joined the domain when they are created. Image Select an image that you want to assign to the end users. Only those published images in the selected node that are appropriate for VDI desktops are listed here. A published image, sometimes referred to as a sealed image or an assignable image, is one that was published to the system by converting a master image into a desktop. Assignment Name Type a friendly name for this floating VDI desktop assignment. The end users see this name when they go to access a desktop from this assignment. For example, when an end user launches Horizon Client to use one of the desktops, this name is the one displayed in Horizon Client. The name must contain only letters, hyphens, and numbers. Spaces are not allowed. The name cannot start with a non-alphabetic character. VM Names Name for all of the desktop VMs created in this assignment, which will have a number appended to it, for example, win10-1, win10-2, etc. The name must start with a letter and can contain only letters, dashes, and numbers. Default Protocol Select a default display protocol you want the end user sessions to use. Circumstances might occur that cause another protocol to be used instead of the default protocol. For example, the client device does not support the default protocol or the end user overrides the default protocol selection. Preferred Client Type Select the preferred client type used when end users launch their session-based desktops from the Workspace™ ONE™ platform's portal, either a Horizon Client or a browser for HTML Access. Min Desktops Max Desktops Specify the minimum number and maximum number of desktops you want in this floating VDI desktop assignment. When the assignment is first created, the system deploys the number of desktops specified in the Max Desktops field, and then powers off the desktops except the number specified for Min Desktops. Only the minimum number of desktop instances is initially powered on. As end user demand increases, the system powers on additional desktops, up to the Max Desktops number. Then as end user demand shrinks, the system powers off the desktops, until it reaches the Min Desktops number. A desktop must be free of a logged-in user session before the system will power it off. When you specify zero (0) for Min Desktops, it indicates that you want the system to power off all of the assignment's desktops until there is end user demand for a desktop. Optionally configure the advanced properties. Option Description Computer OU Active Directory Organizational Unit where the server VMs are to be located. For example, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=eng, and so on. The entries must be comma-separated with no spaces in between. If you need to use nested Organization Units, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units Run Once Script (Optional) Location of a script that you want run in the assignment's desktop VMs after the VM creation process. Note: The script must end with a reboot step to reboot the VM. Otherwise, the end user will not be able to log in the desktop until doing a manual restart. A sample reboot line as a Windows command is: shutdown /r /t 0 The reason why the script must end with a reboot step is due to the sequence when the script is run after the sysprep process. When the system creates a desktop VM for the assignment, the VM boots up and completes the sysprep process in the Windows operating system. When the sysprep process completes, the agent in the desktop VM reaches out to do the domain join. At the same time, the agent gets the script path you specify here. The agent sets the Windows RunOnce path (System run once) and then restarts the desktop VM. On the next restart, the system logs in to the Windows operating system using the local administrator account and runs the script. It is only after another subsequent restart, specified in the script, that the desktop VM is ready for a user to log in. Session Timeout Interval This is the amount of time the end users' sessions can be idle before the system forces a log off from the desktops. This timeout applies to the logged-in session to the underlying Windows operating system. This timeout interval is separate from the timeout settings that govern the end users' Horizon Client or HTML Access logged-in session. Caution: When the system forces the log off in the underlying Windows operating system session, any unsaved data is lost. To prevent an unintended loss of data, set this interval high enough to accommodate the business needs of your end users. The default interval is one week (10080 minutes). Note: If no user activity occurs before the timeout interval is reached, a message appears in the desktop that indicates that the user will be logged off if they do not click OK in the next 30 seconds. If the logoff occurs, any unsaved user data, such as documents or files, is lost. Complete the selections on the Definition step and then click Next. NextNote:You might have to use the scroll bar to see all of the required fields. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionLocationLocationSelect the location of the node from which you want the desktops to be provided. Select the location of the node from which you want the desktops to be provided. NodeNodeSelect the node.Select the node.Desktop ModelDesktop ModelSelect the model to use for the desktop instances. The desktop model defines the set of underlying resources that will be used when the desktop instances are created, in terms of capacity (compute, storage, and so on). The available choices map to standard VM sizes that are available in Microsoft Azure. Select the model to use for the desktop instances. The desktop model defines the set of underlying resources that will be used when the desktop instances are created, in terms of capacity (compute, storage, and so on). The available choices map to standard VM sizes that are available in Microsoft Azure. Domain Domain Select the Active Directory domain registered with your environment.Select the Active Directory domain registered with your environment.Join Domain Join Domain Select Yes so that the desktop instances are automatically joined the domain when they are created.Select Yes so that the desktop instances are automatically joined the domain when they are created.YesImage Image Select an image that you want to assign to the end users. Only those published images in the selected node that are appropriate for VDI desktops are listed here. A published image, sometimes referred to as a sealed image or an assignable image, is one that was published to the system by converting a master image into a desktop. Select an image that you want to assign to the end users. Only those published images in the selected node that are appropriate for VDI desktops are listed here. A published image, sometimes referred to as a sealed image or an assignable image, is one that was published to the system by converting a master image into a desktop. Assignment Name Assignment Name Type a friendly name for this floating VDI desktop assignment. The end users see this name when they go to access a desktop from this assignment. For example, when an end user launches Horizon Client to use one of the desktops, this name is the one displayed in Horizon Client. The name must contain only letters, hyphens, and numbers. Spaces are not allowed. The name cannot start with a non-alphabetic character. Type a friendly name for this floating VDI desktop assignment. The end users see this name when they go to access a desktop from this assignment. For example, when an end user launches Horizon Client to use one of the desktops, this name is the one displayed in Horizon Client. The name must contain only letters, hyphens, and numbers. Spaces are not allowed. The name cannot start with a non-alphabetic character. VM NamesVM NamesName for all of the desktop VMs created in this assignment, which will have a number appended to it, for example, win10-1, win10-2, etc. The name must start with a letter and can contain only letters, dashes, and numbers. Name for all of the desktop VMs created in this assignment, which will have a number appended to it, for example, win10-1, win10-2, etc. The name must start with a letter and can contain only letters, dashes, and numbers. Default ProtocolDefault ProtocolSelect a default display protocol you want the end user sessions to use. Circumstances might occur that cause another protocol to be used instead of the default protocol. For example, the client device does not support the default protocol or the end user overrides the default protocol selection. Select a default display protocol you want the end user sessions to use. Circumstances might occur that cause another protocol to be used instead of the default protocol. For example, the client device does not support the default protocol or the end user overrides the default protocol selection. Preferred Client TypePreferred Client TypeSelect the preferred client type used when end users launch their session-based desktops from the Workspace™ ONE™ platform's portal, either a Horizon Client or a browser for HTML Access. Select the preferred client type used when end users launch their session-based desktops from the Workspace™ ONE™ platform's portal, either a Horizon Client or a browser for HTML Access. Min Desktops Max Desktops Min Desktops Max Desktops Specify the minimum number and maximum number of desktops you want in this floating VDI desktop assignment. When the assignment is first created, the system deploys the number of desktops specified in the Max Desktops field, and then powers off the desktops except the number specified for Min Desktops. Only the minimum number of desktop instances is initially powered on. As end user demand increases, the system powers on additional desktops, up to the Max Desktops number. Then as end user demand shrinks, the system powers off the desktops, until it reaches the Min Desktops number. A desktop must be free of a logged-in user session before the system will power it off. When you specify zero (0) for Min Desktops, it indicates that you want the system to power off all of the assignment's desktops until there is end user demand for a desktop. Specify the minimum number and maximum number of desktops you want in this floating VDI desktop assignment. When the assignment is first created, the system deploys the number of desktops specified in the Max Desktops field, and then powers off the desktops except the number specified for Min Desktops. Max DesktopsMin DesktopsOnly the minimum number of desktop instances is initially powered on. As end user demand increases, the system powers on additional desktops, up to the Max Desktops number. Then as end user demand shrinks, the system powers off the desktops, until it reaches the Min Desktops number. A desktop must be free of a logged-in user session before the system will power it off. Max DesktopsMin DesktopsWhen you specify zero (0) for Min Desktops, it indicates that you want the system to power off all of the assignment's desktops until there is end user demand for a desktop. Min DesktopsOptionally configure the advanced properties. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionComputer OUComputer OUActive Directory Organizational Unit where the server VMs are to be located. For example, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=eng, and so on. The entries must be comma-separated with no spaces in between. If you need to use nested Organization Units, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units Active Directory Organizational Unit where the server VMs are to be located. For example, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=eng, and so on. The entries must be comma-separated with no spaces in between. OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent,DC=engIf you need to use nested Organization Units, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational UnitsRun Once ScriptRun Once ScriptNote:The script must end with a reboot step to reboot the VM. Otherwise, the end user will not be able to log in the desktop until doing a manual restart. A sample reboot line as a Windows command is: shutdown /r /t 0The reason why the script must end with a reboot step is due to the sequence when the script is run after the sysprep process. When the system creates a desktop VM for the assignment, the VM boots up and completes the sysprep process in the Windows operating system. When the sysprep process completes, the agent in the desktop VM reaches out to do the domain join. At the same time, the agent gets the script path you specify here. The agent sets the Windows RunOnce path (System run once) and then restarts the desktop VM. On the next restart, the system logs in to the Windows operating system using the local administrator account and runs the script. It is only after another subsequent restart, specified in the script, that the desktop VM is ready for a user to log in. sysprepsysprepWindows RunOnceSystem run onceSession Timeout IntervalSession Timeout IntervalThis is the amount of time the end users' sessions can be idle before the system forces a log off from the desktops. This timeout applies to the logged-in session to the underlying Windows operating system. This timeout interval is separate from the timeout settings that govern the end users' Horizon Client or HTML Access logged-in session. Caution: When the system forces the log off in the underlying Windows operating system session, any unsaved data is lost. To prevent an unintended loss of data, set this interval high enough to accommodate the business needs of your end users. The default interval is one week (10080 minutes). Note: If no user activity occurs before the timeout interval is reached, a message appears in the desktop that indicates that the user will be logged off if they do not click OK in the next 30 seconds. If the logoff occurs, any unsaved user data, such as documents or files, is lost. This is the amount of time the end users' sessions can be idle before the system forces a log off from the desktops. This timeout applies to the logged-in session to the underlying Windows operating system. This timeout interval is separate from the timeout settings that govern the end users' Horizon Client or HTML Access logged-in session. Caution:When the system forces the log off in the underlying Windows operating system session, any unsaved data is lost. To prevent an unintended loss of data, set this interval high enough to accommodate the business needs of your end users. The default interval is one week (10080 minutes). Note:If no user activity occurs before the timeout interval is reached, a message appears in the desktop that indicates that the user will be logged off if they do not click OK in the next 30 seconds. If the logoff occurs, any unsaved user data, such as documents or files, is lost. OKIn the wizard's Management step, complete the fields and make your selections as appropriate and then click Next. Option Description Image Updates The Concurrent Quiescing Desktops setting controls the number of desktops in this floating VDI desktop assignment that can be concurrently quiesced during the time the assignment's image is being updated. For example, when you later edit this floating VDI desktop assignment to use another image, the system will power off at the same time this number of desktops. Then the system performs the required actions to provision the new image to that set of powered-off desktops . Typically this number is a subset of the full maximum number of desktops defined for this assignment. However, you can specify a number here equal to the Max Desktops setting. In that scenario, you would be allowing the system to power off all of the assignment's desktops at the same time when you edit the assignment to use a new image. Power Management These power management settings are related to the thresholds at which the system automatically grows and shrinks the number of powered-on desktop instances in the floating VDI desktop assignment according to usage. When the usage grows above an upper bound, the system automatically powers up a new desktop instance. When the usage shrinks below a lower bound, the system shuts down deallocates desktop VMs as end users log off from the desktops. The power management selections balance capacity cost with faster availability: Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next desktop instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next desktop ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users try to launch a desktop from the assignment, the desktop is already powered up to meet that demand. Select Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next desktop instance. The occupancy of the assignment's set of desktops is higher before the system powers up the next desktop instance. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing desktops, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on desktops. Select Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. The low and high thresholds for each selection are: Optimized Performance Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% Optimized Power Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% Balanced Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% Timeout Handling Configure how you want the system to handle the desktops' user sessions. Note: The user sessions governed by these settings are the user logins to the desktops' Windows operating system. These sessions are not the user logins in Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, or Workspace ONE. The user's session begins when the user authenticates to the desktop's Windows operating system. Log Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system will log the user off of a disconnected session. Max Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Schedule Power Management To help optimize savings and performance of the desktop VMs in Microsoft Azure, you can optionally configure schedules to adjust the minimum number of powered-on desktop instances on a recurring weekly basis. For example: For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on desktops. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on desktops to be available to meet that demand. You can specify up to 10 schedules for the floating VDI desktop assignment. If any schedules have overlapping time periods but specify different minimum desktop numbers, the system uses the largest value of minimum desktops for the overlapping time period. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Select the days for the first schedule. Note: One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note: If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. In the Min Desktops field, type the minimum number of desktops you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of desktops at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Desktops for the overall floating VDI desktop assignment. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the assignment's desktops are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop from this assignment during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop is in a usable state because the underlying desktop VM has to power on. Note: By default, when a user logs off of a desktop at a time that lies outside of a schedule's time period, the system protects the desktop VM from powering off for 30 minutes. In the wizard's Management step, complete the fields and make your selections as appropriate and then click Next. NextOptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionImage UpdatesImage UpdatesThe Concurrent Quiescing Desktops setting controls the number of desktops in this floating VDI desktop assignment that can be concurrently quiesced during the time the assignment's image is being updated. For example, when you later edit this floating VDI desktop assignment to use another image, the system will power off at the same time this number of desktops. Then the system performs the required actions to provision the new image to that set of powered-off desktops . Typically this number is a subset of the full maximum number of desktops defined for this assignment. However, you can specify a number here equal to the Max Desktops setting. In that scenario, you would be allowing the system to power off all of the assignment's desktops at the same time when you edit the assignment to use a new image. The Concurrent Quiescing Desktops setting controls the number of desktops in this floating VDI desktop assignment that can be concurrently quiesced during the time the assignment's image is being updated. For example, when you later edit this floating VDI desktop assignment to use another image, the system will power off at the same time this number of desktops. Then the system performs the required actions to provision the new image to that set of powered-off desktops . Typically this number is a subset of the full maximum number of desktops defined for this assignment. However, you can specify a number here equal to the Max Desktops setting. In that scenario, you would be allowing the system to power off all of the assignment's desktops at the same time when you edit the assignment to use a new image. Concurrent Quiescing DesktopsMax DesktopsPower ManagementPower ManagementThese power management settings are related to the thresholds at which the system automatically grows and shrinks the number of powered-on desktop instances in the floating VDI desktop assignment according to usage. When the usage grows above an upper bound, the system automatically powers up a new desktop instance. When the usage shrinks below a lower bound, the system shuts down deallocates desktop VMs as end users log off from the desktops. The power management selections balance capacity cost with faster availability: Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next desktop instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next desktop ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users try to launch a desktop from the assignment, the desktop is already powered up to meet that demand. Select Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next desktop instance. The occupancy of the assignment's set of desktops is higher before the system powers up the next desktop instance. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing desktops, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on desktops. Select Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. The low and high thresholds for each selection are: Optimized Performance Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% Optimized Power Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% Balanced Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% These power management settings are related to the thresholds at which the system automatically grows and shrinks the number of powered-on desktop instances in the floating VDI desktop assignment according to usage. When the usage grows above an upper bound, the system automatically powers up a new desktop instance. When the usage shrinks below a lower bound, the system shuts down deallocates desktop VMs as end users log off from the desktops. The power management selections balance capacity cost with faster availability: Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next desktop instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next desktop ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users try to launch a desktop from the assignment, the desktop is already powered up to meet that demand. Select Optimized Performance when you want the system to power on the next desktop instance sooner rather than later. Even though you are spending more by having the next desktop ready to go before the user demand requires it, this setting increases the chance that when users try to launch a desktop from the assignment, the desktop is already powered up to meet that demand. Optimized PerformanceSelect Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next desktop instance. The occupancy of the assignment's set of desktops is higher before the system powers up the next desktop instance. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing desktops, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on desktops. Select Optimized Power, when you want the system to wait as long as possible before powering on the next desktop instance. The occupancy of the assignment's set of desktops is higher before the system powers up the next desktop instance. Even though this selection minimizes capacity costs by having more utilization of the existing desktops, this setting increases the chance that there might be a delay when new users try to log in because they might have to wait during the time system has to power on desktops. Optimized PowerSelect Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. Select Balanced to strike a balance between capacity costs and time-to-availability for users. BalancedThe low and high thresholds for each selection are: Optimized Performance Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% Optimized Performance Optimized PerformanceLow threshold: 23% Low threshold: 23% High threshold: 50% High threshold: 50% Optimized Power Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% Optimized Power Optimized PowerLow threshold: 38% Low threshold: 38% High threshold: 80% High threshold: 80% Balanced Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% Balanced BalancedLow threshold: 31% Low threshold: 31% High threshold: 66% High threshold: 66% Timeout HandlingTimeout HandlingConfigure how you want the system to handle the desktops' user sessions. Note: The user sessions governed by these settings are the user logins to the desktops' Windows operating system. These sessions are not the user logins in Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, or Workspace ONE. The user's session begins when the user authenticates to the desktop's Windows operating system. Log Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system will log the user off of a disconnected session. Max Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Configure how you want the system to handle the desktops' user sessions. Note:The user sessions governed by these settings are the user logins to the desktops' Windows operating system. These sessions are not the user logins in Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, or Workspace ONE. Horizon ClientHorizon HTML AccessWorkspace ONEThe user's session begins when the user authenticates to the desktop's Windows operating system. Log Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system will log the user off of a disconnected session. Log Off Disconnected Sessions - Select when the system will log the user off of a disconnected session. Log Off Disconnected SessionsMax Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Max Session Lifetime - Specify the maximum number of minutes the system should allow for a single user session. Max Session LifetimeSchedule Power ManagementSchedule Power ManagementTo help optimize savings and performance of the desktop VMs in Microsoft Azure, you can optionally configure schedules to adjust the minimum number of powered-on desktop instances on a recurring weekly basis. For example: For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on desktops. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on desktops to be available to meet that demand. You can specify up to 10 schedules for the floating VDI desktop assignment. If any schedules have overlapping time periods but specify different minimum desktop numbers, the system uses the largest value of minimum desktops for the overlapping time period. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Select the days for the first schedule. Note: One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note: If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. In the Min Desktops field, type the minimum number of desktops you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of desktops at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Desktops for the overall floating VDI desktop assignment. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the assignment's desktops are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop from this assignment during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop is in a usable state because the underlying desktop VM has to power on. Note: By default, when a user logs off of a desktop at a time that lies outside of a schedule's time period, the system protects the desktop VM from powering off for 30 minutes. To help optimize savings and performance of the desktop VMs in Microsoft Azure, you can optionally configure schedules to adjust the minimum number of powered-on desktop instances on a recurring weekly basis. For example: For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on desktops. For weekends or night hours when you know your end users will not be using their desktops, you can have a schedule for zero or a low number of powered-on desktops. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on desktops to be available to meet that demand. For specific days or specific hourly stretches that you can predict will have increased end user demand, you can have a schedule that increases the minimum number of powered-on desktops to be available to meet that demand. You can specify up to 10 schedules for the floating VDI desktop assignment. If any schedules have overlapping time periods but specify different minimum desktop numbers, the system uses the largest value of minimum desktops for the overlapping time period. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Click the + icon to add the first row in the Schedule Power Management section. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Type an identifying name for the first schedule. Select the days for the first schedule. Note: One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Select the days for the first schedule. Note:One day is automatically selected by default when the row is added. If you do not want to include the selected day in this schedule, click the drop-down and deselect that selected day. Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Specify the applicable hours in the specified days. Either: Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. Select the All Day check box to have this schedule in effect for all hours of the specified days. All DaySpecify start and end times for the time period in each day Specify start and end times for the time period in each day Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note: If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. Select the time zone. The time zone closest to your end users' location is recommended. As appropriate for the selected time zone, Daylight Savings Time is automatically applied. Note:If two schedules have the same time zone setting and have overlapping times, a warning is displayed. However, if two schedules have different time zone settings and overlap, the warning is not displayed. As an example, if you have two all-day Saturday schedules and one has Europe/London time zone selected and the other has America/Toronto selected, the overlap warning does not display. Europe/LondonAmerica/TorontoIn the Min Desktops field, type the minimum number of desktops you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of desktops at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Desktops for the overall floating VDI desktop assignment. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the assignment's desktops are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop from this assignment during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop is in a usable state because the underlying desktop VM has to power on. In the Min Desktops field, type the minimum number of desktops you want powered on during the specified time period. During the specified time period, that number of desktops at a minimum will be powered on to be available to take end user requests during that time. The number can range from zero (0) up to the number specified for Max Desktops for the overall floating VDI desktop assignment. When this number is zero (0) and there are no active end user sessions at the schedule's starting time point, the assignment's desktops are powered off. In that scenario, if an end user subsequently attempts to connect to a desktop from this assignment during the scheduled time period, there will be a delay before the desktop is in a usable state because the underlying desktop VM has to power on. Min DesktopsMax DesktopsNote:By default, when a user logs off of a desktop at a time that lies outside of a schedule's time period, the system protects the desktop VM from powering off for 30 minutes. On the Users step, search for users and groups in your registered Active Directory domains, select the ones you want to entitle to use desktops from this assignment, and then click Next. On the Users step, search for users and groups in your registered Active Directory domains, select the ones you want to entitle to use desktops from this assignment, and then click Next. NextOn the Summary step, review the configuration and then click Submit. On the Summary step, review the configuration and then click Submit. SubmitResultsThe system begins the process of configuring the desktop instances to provide VDI desktops to the selected users. On the Assignments page, the Status column reflects the current progress. What to do nextIf the image for this floating VDI desktop assignment has applications that require opening special ports, you might need to modify this assignment's associated Network Security Group (NSG) in Microsoft Azure. For details about the NSG, see About Network Security Groups and Your VDI Desktops. About Network Security Groups and Your VDI DesktopsParent topic:Creating Desktop Assignments in Horizon CloudVMware, Inc x 