VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineIn this release, the automated agent update process does not update the User Environment Manager agent software that is installed in the images. If you are using the User Environment Manager capabilities with your images and want to update the agent software, you must perform a manual update. User Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerAbout this taskAfter the Imported VMs page indicates that your master image VM has its agent-related status as active, you can connect to it using your RDP software and update the User Environment Manager agent software that is installed in the underlying Windows operating system. User Environment ManagerPrerequisitesVerify the Imported VMs page indicates the agent-related status is active for the VM. Obtain the VM's IP address as displayed on the Imported VMs page. Note:When using the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client as your RDP software to connect to the master VM, ensure it is the most up-to-date version. For example, the default RDP software in the Windows 7 operating system is not at a high enough version. The version must be version 8 or higher. Verify you have local administrator account credentials to log in to the image and update it. This administrator account is the same one that was used to publish the image using the New Image workflow. See Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image. Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageProcedureDuplicate the published image for which you want to update the User Environment Manager agent software. Duplicate the published image for which you want to update the User Environment Manager agent software. User Environment ManagerUse the VM's IP address in your RDP software to connect to the Windows operating system. If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Note: To access a VM that is running the agent-related software components, the version of the Remote Desktop Client must be version 8 or later. Otherwise, the connection fails. Using the most up-to-date Remote Desktop Client is recommended. Use the VM's IP address in your RDP software to connect to the Windows operating system. If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Note:To access a VM that is running the agent-related software components, the version of the Remote Desktop Client must be version 8 or later. Otherwise, the connection fails. Using the most up-to-date Remote Desktop Client is recommended. Log in to the Windows operating system using a username and password that has access to the image's operating system. Enter the username as \username. This account is a local administration account. Log in to the Windows operating system using a username and password that has access to the image's operating system. Enter the username as \username. This account is a local administration account. In the Windows operating system, download the latest User Environment Manager zip package from the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure download page. Log in with your My VMware account credentials when prompted. In the Windows operating system, download the latest User Environment Manager zip package from the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure download page. User Environment ManagerVMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure download pageLog in with your My VMware account credentials when prompted. My VMwareUnzip the package and use the 64-bit .msi file to update User Environment Manager. Unzip the package and use the 64-bit .msi file to update User Environment Manager. User Environment ManagerSign out of the VM's Windows operating system. Sign out of the VM's Windows operating system. Publish the image VM. Publish the image VM. What to do nextEdit the RDSH farms or VDI desktop assignments that are using the original pre-update image to use the newly updated duplicate image. Parent topic:Updating the Agent-Related Software Used by Horizon CloudVMware, Inc x 