VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineTo update the agent-related software that is installed in the desktop VMs that are used by a dedicated VDI desktop assignment, use the Assignment page's Update Agent action. You make the agent update on the specific dedicated VDI desktop assignment. This method is different than for agent updates for floating VDI desktop assignments. Update AgentAbout this taskImportant:These steps are for dedicated VDI desktop assignments. These steps do not apply to floating VDI desktop assignments. For information on updating agents in your floating VDI desktop assignments, see Update Agent Software for Images Used by Floating VDI Desktop Assignments. Update Agent Software for Images Used by Floating VDI Desktop AssignmentsAt a high-level, the system's agent update capability works as follows: The system makes regular contact with the VMware CDS (Component Download Service) software distribution network to see if a new version of the Horizon Agents Installer is available. If so, the system automatically downloads that version to your Horizon Cloud nodes. The system makes regular contact with the VMware CDS (Component Download Service) software distribution network to see if a new version of the Horizon Agents Installer is available. If so, the system automatically downloads that version to your Horizon Cloud nodes. Horizon CloudAfter a new version is downloaded, the Assignments page reflects that an update is available. A visual indicator is displayed for those dedicated VDI desktop assignments that have the agent-related software at a level prior to the new version. After a new version is downloaded, the Assignments page reflects that an update is available. A visual indicator is displayed for those dedicated VDI desktop assignments that have the agent-related software at a level prior to the new version. In the agent update wizard, you specify what percentage of the VMs in the assignment are to be kept available for users during the update. In the agent update wizard, you specify what percentage of the VMs in the assignment are to be kept available for users during the update. During the agent update process for a dedicated VDI desktop assignment: If a desktop has an active session, the user will be warned five minutes before the update occurs. This five-minute warning is to give the user time to save any in-progress work. If a user attempts to log in to a desktop that is being updated, the login will be unsuccessful and the user will receive a message that the desktop is not yet available. During the agent update process for a dedicated VDI desktop assignment: If a desktop has an active session, the user will be warned five minutes before the update occurs. This five-minute warning is to give the user time to save any in-progress work. If a desktop has an active session, the user will be warned five minutes before the update occurs. This five-minute warning is to give the user time to save any in-progress work. If a user attempts to log in to a desktop that is being updated, the login will be unsuccessful and the user will receive a message that the desktop is not yet available. If a user attempts to log in to a desktop that is being updated, the login will be unsuccessful and the user will receive a message that the desktop is not yet available. At the end of the agent update process, the assignment's summary page lists the version of the Horizon Agents Installer that is in effect. At the end of the agent update process, the assignment's summary page lists the version of the Horizon Agents Installer that is in effect. PrerequisitesCaution:While the update agent operation is in progress, you must ensure that you have no other planned activities that would cause any of the assignment's desktop VMs to experience a power change operation. For example, notify your other administrators not to manually power off or on one of these desktop VMs, and ensure that any power management schedules configured in this assignment will not cause the desktops to power on or off while the update agent tasks are running. If a desktop VM experiences a power-change operation while the system is running its agent update tasks on the VM, unexpected results can occur and leave that desktop VM in a state that requires manual recovery. A best practice is to edit the assiginment and remove any configured power management schedules to ensure no power-change operation will occur while the agent update tasks are running. Important:The User Environment Manager agent software in an image is not updated by the system's agent update capability. If you want to update the User Environment Manager agent software to a later version, first perform the steps in Update the User Environment Manager Agent Software in Images before performing the steps here. User Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerUpdate the User Environment Manager Agent Software in ImagesBefore you can use the Update Agent action on a dedicated VDI desktop assignment in your Horizon Cloud environment, that assignment must be using an image that has agent-related software at the following versions or later: Update AgentHorizon CloudVersion 7.3.2 for the Horizon View Agent (64-bit) Version 7.3.2 for the Horizon View Agent (64-bit) Version 17.2 for the Horizon DaaS Agent Version 17.2 for the Horizon DaaS Agent You can see the agent version number in the Agent Software section of the dedicated VDI desktop assignment's summary page. From the Assignments page, click on the assignment to open its details page. ProcedureNavigate to the Assignments page by clicking Assign. On the Assignments page, a blue dot appears next to the name of any dedicated VDI desktop assignment for which an update applies. If you hover over a blue dot, a popup displays indicating the new version of the Horizon Agents Installer available for that assignment. The screenshot below illustrates that an agent update is available for the assignment named la24dedsales. Hover your cursor over that blue dot to see what updates are available. Navigate to the Assignments page by clicking Assign. AssignOn the Assignments page, a blue dot appears next to the name of any dedicated VDI desktop assignment for which an update applies. If you hover over a blue dot, a popup displays indicating the new version of the Horizon Agents Installer available for that assignment. The screenshot below illustrates that an agent update is available for the assignment named la24dedsales. Hover your cursor over that blue dot to see what updates are available. Select the check box next to the image you want to update. Select the check box next to the image you want to update. Click Update Agent. The Agent Update wizard appears. Click Update Agent. Update AgentIn the Software step, select the update version you want to use from the drop-down list. In the Software step, select the update version you want to use from the drop-down list. In the Available VMs to Users field, specify the percentage of desktop VMs in the assignment that you want powered on and available to end users during the upgrade process. In the Available VMs to Users field, specify the percentage of desktop VMs in the assignment that you want powered on and available to end users during the upgrade process. Available VMs to UsersClick Next. Click Next. NextIn the Command Line step, add any command-line options that might be relevant for this update on the image. The wizard displays a message that indicates whether command-line options are available for the specified update. Click Submit. A message displays at the top of the page indicating that the update has started. The system updates the agent-related components on the desktop VMs in the dedicated VDI desktop assignment. You can view the progress of the update task by selecting Monitor > Activity. If the task is not completed successfully within 24 hours, it is shown in failure status. Click Submit. SubmitA message displays at the top of the page indicating that the update has started. A message displays at the top of the page indicating that the update has started. The system updates the agent-related components on the desktop VMs in the dedicated VDI desktop assignment. The system updates the agent-related components on the desktop VMs in the dedicated VDI desktop assignment. You can view the progress of the update task by selecting Monitor > Activity. If the task is not completed successfully within 24 hours, it is shown in failure status. Monitor > ActivityParent topic:Updating the Agent-Related Software Used by Horizon CloudVMware, Inc x 