VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineUse the General Settings page to modify settings that apply to your overall Horizon Cloud environment. Horizon CloudProcedureSelect Settings > General Settings. Select Settings > General Settings. Settings > General SettingsSettingsGeneral SettingsClick Edit. Click Edit. Make changes for these settings. Option Description Default Domain The environment's default domain. Retain the default value. The number displayed in this area is related to the software manifest number for the most recently deployed node in your environment. Session Timeout These settings govern timeouts of connections to your Horizon Cloud environment: The Admin Portal Timeout setting governs the amount time an administrator can be continuously logged in to the Administration Console. When that time has elapsed, the administrator's authenticated session ends and the administrator must log back in. The other listed settings govern the end users' connections made from their endpoint devices using Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, and Workspace ONE. You can adjust these timeout settings to allocate enough time to avoid a user unexpectedly finding that they need to reauthenticate to Horizon Cloud. For details, see Horizon Client Timeout Settings. User Portal Configuration The user portal feature is deprecated in this release. My VMware Accounts To give users the ability to log in to Horizon Cloud, you can add their My VMware accounts. After adding their My VMware information here, then assign their Active Directory user accounts the role that is appropriate for their job or business tasks. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. HTML Access The Cleanup credentials when tab is closed setting affects system security and ease of use when end users access desktops or applications using HTML Access. The setting determines if end users must re-enter their credentials when they reconnect. A value of Yes, the option that emphasizes security, prompts end users to re-enter their credentials. A value of No, the option that emphasizes ease of use, does not prompt end users to re-enter their credentials. RDSH Farm You can provide a message that Horizon Cloud will display to end users when their logged-in Windows session with their RDS desktop or remote application has reached the farm's configured maximum session time. The system will forcibly log off the user from their logged-in Windows session once the grace period time expires. In the Grace Period field, you can provide a time for which the system waits before forcibly logging off the user, once the reminder message has been sent. Pool/Farm Options This option governs what happens if the end user uses Horizon Client to try to connect to a desktop or remote application when the underlying VDI or RDSH virtual machine is powered off in the cloud. As a result of an assignment's or RDSH farm's power management settings, there might not be enough powered-on virtual machine capacity to serve the client's request. When the connection is initiated, Horizon Cloud starts powering on the underlying virtual machine needed to fulfill the request. However, while the underlying virtual machine is powering on, the Horizon Cloud agent in the virtual machine has not yet started up and cannot respond to the Horizon Client connection request. Because it can take some time between when the client initiates the connection and the agent is running, you can use this option to have the client automatically retry the connection and inform the end user of the estimated time. For this scenario, when the Enable Client Retry toggle is set to Yes, the client presents a message to the end user that describes the estimated waiting time. Horizon Cloud starts powering on the underlying virtual machine in the cloud that will serve the end user's client request. Horizon Cloud notifies Horizon Client to retry the connection when the agent in the virtual machine is up and running. The client prompts the user with a message that describes the wait time estimated before the client will retry the connection. Monitoring Use the Enable User Session Information toggle to opt-in or opt-out from the Horizon Cloud cloud monitoring service. The monitoring service enables collection of user session information for utilization, trending, and historical analysis. The data is used in charts on the Dashboard page and in reports on the Reports page. You can opt-in or opt-out at any time. When that monitoring feature is disabled, the system collects such user session information for a limited period of time and hashes the username to enable real time administration while disabling historical and aggregated viewing of that user information. As a result, the reports that would display historical and aggregated viewing of that data, such as the Session History report, are not available. Contact Info Administrator contact information Make changes for these settings. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionDefault DomainDefault DomainThe environment's default domain. Retain the default value. The number displayed in this area is related to the software manifest number for the most recently deployed node in your environment. The environment's default domain. Retain the default value. The number displayed in this area is related to the software manifest number for the most recently deployed node in your environment. Session Timeout Session Timeout These settings govern timeouts of connections to your Horizon Cloud environment: The Admin Portal Timeout setting governs the amount time an administrator can be continuously logged in to the Administration Console. When that time has elapsed, the administrator's authenticated session ends and the administrator must log back in. The other listed settings govern the end users' connections made from their endpoint devices using Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, and Workspace ONE. You can adjust these timeout settings to allocate enough time to avoid a user unexpectedly finding that they need to reauthenticate to Horizon Cloud. For details, see Horizon Client Timeout Settings. These settings govern timeouts of connections to your Horizon Cloud environment: Horizon CloudThe Admin Portal Timeout setting governs the amount time an administrator can be continuously logged in to the Administration Console. When that time has elapsed, the administrator's authenticated session ends and the administrator must log back in. The Admin Portal Timeout setting governs the amount time an administrator can be continuously logged in to the Administration Console. When that time has elapsed, the administrator's authenticated session ends and the administrator must log back in. Admin Portal TimeoutThe other listed settings govern the end users' connections made from their endpoint devices using Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, and Workspace ONE. You can adjust these timeout settings to allocate enough time to avoid a user unexpectedly finding that they need to reauthenticate to Horizon Cloud. For details, see Horizon Client Timeout Settings. The other listed settings govern the end users' connections made from their endpoint devices using Horizon Client, Horizon HTML Access, and Workspace ONE. You can adjust these timeout settings to allocate enough time to avoid a user unexpectedly finding that they need to reauthenticate to Horizon Cloud. For details, see Horizon Client Timeout Settings. Horizon ClientHorizon HTML AccessWorkspace ONEHorizon CloudHorizon Client Timeout SettingsUser Portal Configuration User Portal Configuration The user portal feature is deprecated in this release. The user portal feature is deprecated in this release. My VMware AccountsMy VMware AccountsTo give users the ability to log in to Horizon Cloud, you can add their My VMware accounts. After adding their My VMware information here, then assign their Active Directory user accounts the role that is appropriate for their job or business tasks. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups.To give users the ability to log in to Horizon Cloud, you can add their My VMware accounts. After adding their My VMware information here, then assign their Active Directory user accounts the role that is appropriate for their job or business tasks. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups.Horizon CloudMy VMwareMy VMwareAssign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsHTML AccessHTML AccessThe Cleanup credentials when tab is closed setting affects system security and ease of use when end users access desktops or applications using HTML Access. The setting determines if end users must re-enter their credentials when they reconnect. A value of Yes, the option that emphasizes security, prompts end users to re-enter their credentials. A value of No, the option that emphasizes ease of use, does not prompt end users to re-enter their credentials. The Cleanup credentials when tab is closed setting affects system security and ease of use when end users access desktops or applications using HTML Access. The setting determines if end users must re-enter their credentials when they reconnect. Cleanup credentials when tab is closedA value of Yes, the option that emphasizes security, prompts end users to re-enter their credentials. A value of Yes, the option that emphasizes security, prompts end users to re-enter their credentials. YesA value of No, the option that emphasizes ease of use, does not prompt end users to re-enter their credentials. A value of No, the option that emphasizes ease of use, does not prompt end users to re-enter their credentials. NoRDSH FarmRDSH FarmYou can provide a message that Horizon Cloud will display to end users when their logged-in Windows session with their RDS desktop or remote application has reached the farm's configured maximum session time. The system will forcibly log off the user from their logged-in Windows session once the grace period time expires. In the Grace Period field, you can provide a time for which the system waits before forcibly logging off the user, once the reminder message has been sent. You can provide a message that Horizon Cloud will display to end users when their logged-in Windows session with their RDS desktop or remote application has reached the farm's configured maximum session time. The system will forcibly log off the user from their logged-in Windows session once the grace period time expires. Horizon CloudIn the Grace Period field, you can provide a time for which the system waits before forcibly logging off the user, once the reminder message has been sent. Grace PeriodPool/Farm OptionsPool/Farm OptionsThis option governs what happens if the end user uses Horizon Client to try to connect to a desktop or remote application when the underlying VDI or RDSH virtual machine is powered off in the cloud. As a result of an assignment's or RDSH farm's power management settings, there might not be enough powered-on virtual machine capacity to serve the client's request. When the connection is initiated, Horizon Cloud starts powering on the underlying virtual machine needed to fulfill the request. However, while the underlying virtual machine is powering on, the Horizon Cloud agent in the virtual machine has not yet started up and cannot respond to the Horizon Client connection request. Because it can take some time between when the client initiates the connection and the agent is running, you can use this option to have the client automatically retry the connection and inform the end user of the estimated time. For this scenario, when the Enable Client Retry toggle is set to Yes, the client presents a message to the end user that describes the estimated waiting time. Horizon Cloud starts powering on the underlying virtual machine in the cloud that will serve the end user's client request. Horizon Cloud notifies Horizon Client to retry the connection when the agent in the virtual machine is up and running. The client prompts the user with a message that describes the wait time estimated before the client will retry the connection. This option governs what happens if the end user uses Horizon Client to try to connect to a desktop or remote application when the underlying VDI or RDSH virtual machine is powered off in the cloud. As a result of an assignment's or RDSH farm's power management settings, there might not be enough powered-on virtual machine capacity to serve the client's request. When the connection is initiated, Horizon Cloud starts powering on the underlying virtual machine needed to fulfill the request. However, while the underlying virtual machine is powering on, the Horizon Cloud agent in the virtual machine has not yet started up and cannot respond to the Horizon Client connection request. Because it can take some time between when the client initiates the connection and the agent is running, you can use this option to have the client automatically retry the connection and inform the end user of the estimated time. For this scenario, when the Enable Client Retry toggle is set to Yes, the client presents a message to the end user that describes the estimated waiting time. Horizon ClientHorizon CloudHorizon CloudHorizon ClientEnable Client RetryYesHorizon Cloud starts powering on the underlying virtual machine in the cloud that will serve the end user's client request. Horizon Cloud starts powering on the underlying virtual machine in the cloud that will serve the end user's client request. Horizon CloudHorizon Cloud notifies Horizon Client to retry the connection when the agent in the virtual machine is up and running. Horizon Cloud notifies Horizon Client to retry the connection when the agent in the virtual machine is up and running. Horizon CloudHorizon ClientThe client prompts the user with a message that describes the wait time estimated before the client will retry the connection. The client prompts the user with a message that describes the wait time estimated before the client will retry the connection. MonitoringMonitoringUse the Enable User Session Information toggle to opt-in or opt-out from the Horizon Cloud cloud monitoring service. The monitoring service enables collection of user session information for utilization, trending, and historical analysis. The data is used in charts on the Dashboard page and in reports on the Reports page. You can opt-in or opt-out at any time. When that monitoring feature is disabled, the system collects such user session information for a limited period of time and hashes the username to enable real time administration while disabling historical and aggregated viewing of that user information. As a result, the reports that would display historical and aggregated viewing of that data, such as the Session History report, are not available. Use the Enable User Session Information toggle to opt-in or opt-out from the Horizon Cloud cloud monitoring service. The monitoring service enables collection of user session information for utilization, trending, and historical analysis. The data is used in charts on the Dashboard page and in reports on the Reports page. Enable User Session InformationHorizon CloudYou can opt-in or opt-out at any time. When that monitoring feature is disabled, the system collects such user session information for a limited period of time and hashes the username to enable real time administration while disabling historical and aggregated viewing of that user information. As a result, the reports that would display historical and aggregated viewing of that data, such as the Session History report, are not available. Contact InfoContact InfoAdministrator contact informationAdministrator contact informationClick Save. Click Save. Parent topic:About the Settings IconVMware, Inc x 