VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou use the Getting Started wizard to perform the configuration steps that are needed before you can fully manage and use the environment, such as registering an Active Directory domain. The Getting Started wizard displays by default when you log in to the Administration Console for the first time. After you have finished registering one Active Directory domain and given the Horizon Cloud Super Administrators role to one Active Directory group, then you can perform administration tasks using the Administration Console, as well as register additional Active Directory domains, as appropriate for your organization's needs. Horizon CloudImportant:The domain-join account you specified when you register the Active Directory domain must be in a group to which you give the Super Administrators role. The Getting Started wizard provides a high-level overview of the work that you have done, and what is still to do. You can access the wizard at any time by clicking the icon in the top right corner of the page. Note:To ensure that you completed all tasks required to run and manage the environment, review the steps in Suggested Workflow for Your First Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure and its subtopics. You cannot perform certain tasks from the Getting Started wizard, such as uploading certificates. Suggested Workflow for Your First Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureTable 1. Getting Started Wizard SelectionsOption Option Description Description Capacity Capacity Provides: Access to the Add Cloud Capacity wizard, used to deploy your first node in a cloud capacity environment, such as the Microsoft Azure cloud. A high-level overview of the nodes that already exist (if any) in your environment. Provides: Access to the Add Cloud Capacity wizard, used to deploy your first node in a cloud capacity environment, such as the Microsoft Azure cloud. Access to the Add Cloud Capacity wizard, used to deploy your first node in a cloud capacity environment, such as the Microsoft Azure cloud. A high-level overview of the nodes that already exist (if any) in your environment. A high-level overview of the nodes that already exist (if any) in your environment. General Setup General Setup Provides details and links for the initial configuration of various node-wide settings, such as registering an Active Directory domain. See General Setup Section of the Getting Started Wizard. Provides details and links for the initial configuration of various node-wide settings, such as registering an Active Directory domain. See General Setup Section of the Getting Started Wizard. General Setup Section of the Getting Started WizardImported VMs Imported VMs Provides links to task pages used to work with virtual machines (VMs) that are brought into your Horizon Cloud environment. Provides links to task pages used to work with virtual machines (VMs) that are brought into your Horizon Cloud environment. Horizon CloudDesktop Assignment Desktop Assignment Provides links to task pages related to publishing master images for use in farms and VDi desktop asssignments. See Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure and its subtopics. Provides links to task pages related to publishing master images for use in farms and VDi desktop asssignments. See Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure and its subtopics. Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureApp Assignment App Assignment Provides links to task pages related to applications and application assignments. See Applications in Your Horizon Cloud Inventory and its subtopics. Provides links to task pages related to applications and application assignments. See Applications in Your Horizon Cloud Inventory and its subtopics. Applications in Your Horizon Cloud InventoryWhen you have completed the required steps of registering at least one Active Directory domain and giving the Super Administrator role to an AD user group, displaying the wizard is optional. To toggle having the wizard appear every time you log in to the Administration Console, move the slider at the bottom of the wizard's main page to Yes. YesNote:Even though the wizard's primary use occurs during your first time setting up a node and most people toggle the wizard off after that, some people find the wizard might be a convenient launching point when performing some of the standard tasks. General Setup Section of the Getting Started WizardIn the first-time configuration for a Horizon Cloud node, you use the choices in the General Setup section for the initial configuration of various node-wide settings, such as registering an Active Directory domain. After the first-time configuration, you can use the choices in the General Setup section to open the console pages in which you can edit the configurations. General Setup Section of the Getting Started WizardGeneral Setup Section of the Getting Started WizardHorizon CloudParent topic:About the Settings IconVMware, Inc x 