VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineThe Assign icon displays the Assignments page, where you can create and work with assignments in your Horizon Cloud environment. AssignHorizon CloudThe Assignments page provides access to use these assignment-related workflows. Action Action Description Description New New Create assignments for items in your inventory, such as virtual desktops and applications. Create assignments for items in your inventory, such as virtual desktops and applications. Edit Edit Use this button to modify characteristics of the selected assignment. Use this button to modify characteristics of the selected assignment. Duplicate Duplicate Use this button to duplicate the selected desktop assignment and create a new one with the same specifications but a new name. Use this button to duplicate the selected desktop assignment and create a new one with the same specifications but a new name. Take Offline Take Offline Use this button to take the selected assignment offline, typically for maintenance purposes. Use this button to take the selected assignment offline, typically for maintenance purposes. Update Agent Update Agent Use this button to update the agent-related software in a dedicated VDI desktop assignment. Use this button to update the agent-related software in a dedicated VDI desktop assignment. URL Redirection URL Redirection Use this button to configure a set of URL handling rules and assign to users. Use this button to configure a set of URL handling rules and assign to users. Delete Delete Use this button to delete the selected assignment. Use this button to delete the selected assignment. Recover Recover Use this button to recover desktops that encountered an error during the previous image update. Available for desktop assignments. Use this button to recover desktops that encountered an error during the previous image update. Available for desktop assignments. Bring Online Bring Online Use this button to bring an offline assignment back online. Use this button to bring an offline assignment back online. For each assignment, you can click its name see more information about that assignment, such as which users it is assigned to and other details. When you click on a VDI desktop assignment, in addition to seeing more information about the assignment, you can also navigate to the VDI desktop assignment's Desktops tab to see the list of virtual desktops that are in that VDI desktop assignment and optionally perform actions on those desktops. DesktopsFor detailed information about managing assignments in the environment, see Managing Assignments. Managing AssignmentsParent topic:About Menu Selections in the Administration ConsoleVMware, Inc x 