VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineIf you created a master image VM with GPU, you must log into the VM's Windows operating system and install the supported NVIDIA graphics drivers to get the GPU capabilities of that VM. You install the drivers after the VM is created and the Imported VMs page shows the agent-related status is active. About this taskFor a master VM using Microsoft Windows Server, install the appropriate NVIDIA GRID driver from the Microsoft article Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows Server. Note: In this release, when using a Microsoft Windows Server operating system, GPU is recommended for use only in Microsoft Windows Server 2016, due to an NVIDIA driver limit on the number of user sessions in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2. The master image VM must have been created with Microsoft Windows Server 2016. For a master VM using Microsoft Windows Server, install the appropriate NVIDIA GRID driver from the Microsoft article Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows Server. Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows ServerNote:In this release, when using a Microsoft Windows Server operating system, GPU is recommended for use only in Microsoft Windows Server 2016, due to an NVIDIA driver limit on the number of user sessions in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2. The master image VM must have been created with Microsoft Windows Server 2016. Install the drivers following the installation instructions in the Driver installation section of the Microsoft article Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows Server. Install the drivers following the installation instructions in the Driver installation section of the Microsoft article Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows Server. Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows ServerCaution:Install the NV drivers listed on that Microsoft page (NV instances - NVIDIA GRID drivers), and not the NC drivers. PrerequisitesVerify the Imported VMs page indicates the agent-related status is active for the VM. Note:When using the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client as your RDP software to connect to the master VM, ensure it is the most up-to-date version. For example, the default RDP software in the Windows 7 operating system is not at a high enough version. The version must be version 8 or higher. Verify you have at least one of the following credentials (user name and password) to log in to the VM's guest Windows operating system: The credentials for the local administrator account that was specified in the Import Image wizard when this master image VM was created, as described in Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. The credentials for the local administrator account that was specified in the Import Image wizard when this master image VM was created, as described in Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure MarketplaceThe credentials for a domain account that is configured in the image VM's DaaS Direct Connect Users local group, as described in Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. The credentials for a domain account that is configured in the image VM's DaaS Direct Connect Users local group, as described in Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageProcedureUse the VM's IP address in your RDP software to connect to the VM's Windows operating system. If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Note: To access a VM that is running the agent-related software components, the version of the Remote Desktop Client must be version 8 or later. Otherwise, the connection fails. Using the most up-to-date Remote Desktop Client is recommended. Use the VM's IP address in your RDP software to connect to the VM's Windows operating system. If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM was created with a public IP address, you can use that IP address in your RDP software If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network If the master image VM has a private IP address, you must RDP into it by one of these two methods: Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Using another VM in your Microsoft Azure subscription that does have a public IP address and doing an outbound RDP into the master image VM. Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Use your VPN and RDP into the master image VM over your corporate network Note:To access a VM that is running the agent-related software components, the version of the Remote Desktop Client must be version 8 or later. Otherwise, the connection fails. Using the most up-to-date Remote Desktop Client is recommended. Log in to the Windows operating system using the username and password that was supplied in the Import Image wizard. Enter the username as \username. Log in to the Windows operating system using the username and password that was supplied in the Import Image wizard. Enter the username as \username. Install the drivers as described in the Driver installation section of the Microsoft article Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows Server. Install the drivers as described in the Driver installation section of the Microsoft article Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows Server. Set up GPU drivers for N-series VMs running Windows ServerWhen the drivers are installed, restart the VM. When the drivers are installed, restart the VM. Reconnect to the VM, log in, and verify that the NVIDIA driver is installed and working in the VM. In the VM, open the Device Manager, expand Display Adapters, and verify the proper installation of the NVIDIA driver. Reconnect to the VM, log in, and verify that the NVIDIA driver is installed and working in the VM. In the VM, open the Device Manager, expand Display Adapters, and verify the proper installation of the NVIDIA driver. Sign out of the VM's Windows server operating system. Sign out of the VM's Windows server operating system. Parent topic:Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureVMware, Inc x 