VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineIn the first-time configuration for a Horizon Cloud node, you use the choices in the General Setup section for the initial configuration of various node-wide settings, such as registering an Active Directory domain. After the first-time configuration, you can use the choices in the General Setup section to open the console pages in which you can edit the configurations. Horizon CloudSelection Selection Description Description My VMware Accounts My VMware Accounts My VMware AccountsGive access for other people to log in to the Administration Console and your Horizon Cloud environment using their own My VMware accounts. See Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization. Give access for other people to log in to the Administration Console and your Horizon Cloud environment using their own My VMware accounts. See Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization. Horizon CloudMy VMwareGive Administrative Access to People in Your OrganizationActive Directory Active Directory Active DirectoryRegister the initial Active Directory domain and add domain bind and domain join information. Domain registration of at least one Active Directory domain is required in order to give roles and permissions to Administration Console users or assign services to users. You must register an Active Directory domain and complete the domain join before you can perform other operations with the associated node or register additional Active Directory domains. For information about tasks related to Active Directory and your Horizon Cloud nodes, see: Register Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory Domain Register Additional Active Directory Domains with Your Horizon Cloud Node Add Additional Auxiliary Bind Accounts for an Active Directory Domain Registered to Your Horizon Cloud Node Register the initial Active Directory domain and add domain bind and domain join information. Domain registration of at least one Active Directory domain is required in order to give roles and permissions to Administration Console users or assign services to users. You must register an Active Directory domain and complete the domain join before you can perform other operations with the associated node or register additional Active Directory domains. For information about tasks related to Active Directory and your Horizon Cloud nodes, see: Horizon CloudRegister Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory Domain Register Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory Domain Register Your Horizon Cloud Node's First Active Directory DomainRegister Additional Active Directory Domains with Your Horizon Cloud Node Register Additional Active Directory Domains with Your Horizon Cloud Node Register Additional Active Directory Domains with Your Horizon Cloud NodeAdd Additional Auxiliary Bind Accounts for an Active Directory Domain Registered to Your Horizon Cloud Node Add Additional Auxiliary Bind Accounts for an Active Directory Domain Registered to Your Horizon Cloud Node Add Additional Auxiliary Bind Accounts for an Active Directory Domain Registered to Your Horizon Cloud NodeRoles & Permissions Roles & Permissions Roles & PermissionsAssign roles to users who will be managing the environment. A role grants its associated permissions to the users given that role. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Assign roles to users who will be managing the environment. A role grants its associated permissions to the users given that role. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsUser Session Information User Session Information User Session InformationEnable this feature to have the Horizon Cloud cloud monitoring capabilities collect historical information about your end users' sessions, such as times they logged in, session durations, and average session length per user. When you enable this feature, Horizon Cloud collects this information and maintains it for the duration of your use of Horizon Cloud. You can delete the collected data by disabling the feature. When this feature is disabled, Horizon Cloud collects this information for a limited period of time for real-time administration only. When the feature is disabled, the information is not saved for historical or aggregated viewing. The information collected by this feature is used for the reports on the Reports page. See Reports Page. For steps on how to enable or disable this feature, see Edit General Settings. Enable this feature to have the Horizon Cloud cloud monitoring capabilities collect historical information about your end users' sessions, such as times they logged in, session durations, and average session length per user. When you enable this feature, Horizon Cloud collects this information and maintains it for the duration of your use of Horizon Cloud. You can delete the collected data by disabling the feature. Horizon CloudHorizon CloudHorizon CloudWhen this feature is disabled, Horizon Cloud collects this information for a limited period of time for real-time administration only. When the feature is disabled, the information is not saved for historical or aggregated viewing. Horizon CloudThe information collected by this feature is used for the reports on the Reports page. See Reports Page. Reports PageFor steps on how to enable or disable this feature, see Edit General Settings. Edit General SettingsParent topic:About the Horizon Cloud Getting Started WizardVMware, Inc x 