VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineHorizon Cloud uses notifications to inform you of certain types of system activity, such as events and service registrations. Horizon CloudYou can view recent notifications in the Administration Console by clicking the bell icon located in the upper right corner of any page () Open the Notifications page to view all notifications, which includes both active and dismissed notifications, by clicking Monitor > Notifications. Monitor > NotificationsMonitorNotificationsYou can also show the notifications for different periods of time up to 30 days, refresh the page, and filter your search. Table 1. Notification TypesNotification Type Notification Type Description Description Service Registration Service Registration Service registration notifications are issued during the configuration of your environment. The system issues this type of notification when one of its packaged services is registered successfully. Service registration notifications are issued during the configuration of your environment. The system issues this type of notification when one of its packaged services is registered successfully. Node related Node related Node-related notifications are issued when the system detects a change in status of the deployed node in Microsoft Azure. These notifications include those for when a node has lost connectivity with the Horizon Cloud cloud plane and when subnets are full. When subnets are full, then system operations involving cloning VMs raise notifications. Node-related notifications are issued when the system detects a change in status of the deployed node in Microsoft Azure. These notifications include those for when a node has lost connectivity with the Horizon Cloud cloud plane and when subnets are full. When subnets are full, then system operations involving cloning VMs raise notifications. Horizon CloudNode API related Node API related Notifications related to the cloud plane API requests to the node resources in Microsoft Azure, such as API slow downs or time outs. Notifications related to the cloud plane API requests to the node resources in Microsoft Azure, such as API slow downs or time outs. Primary bind account locked Primary bind account locked Account-lockout notifications are issued when the system detects the primary domain-bind account is in a failed or inactive state. For more information, see Notifications When the Primary Domain-Bind Account is Locked Out. Account-lockout notifications are issued when the system detects the primary domain-bind account is in a failed or inactive state. For more information, see Notifications When the Primary Domain-Bind Account is Locked Out. Notifications When the Primary Domain-Bind Account is Locked OutParent topic:About the Monitor IconVMware, Inc x 