VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou must configure the certificate template on the CA. The certificate template is the basis for the certificates that the CA generates. PrerequisitesComplete the steps described in Install and Configure a Windows Server 2012 R2 Certificate Authority. Install and Configure a Windows Server 2012 R2 Certificate AuthorityProcedureCreate a new Universal Security Group. This allows you to have a single Security Group to which you can assign the permissions required for issuing certificates on behalf of users. All the computers where VMware Enrollment Servers are installed can inherit those permissions by becoming a member of this group. Click Start and type dsa.msc. The Active Directory Users and Computers dialog displays. In the tree, right-click the Users folder for the domain controller and select New > Group. The New Object - Group dialog displays. In the Group Name field, enter a name for the new group. For example, TrueSSO Enrollment Servers. Make settings as described below. Setting Value Group scope Universal Group type Security Click OK. The new group appears in the tree in the Active Directory Users and Computers dialog dialog. Right-click the group and select Properties. On the Member Of tab, add the computer where the Enrollment Server will be installed, and then click OK. Restart the computer(s) where the Enrollment Server(s) will be installed Create a new Universal Security Group. This allows you to have a single Security Group to which you can assign the permissions required for issuing certificates on behalf of users. All the computers where VMware Enrollment Servers are installed can inherit those permissions by becoming a member of this group. Click Start and type dsa.msc. The Active Directory Users and Computers dialog displays. Click Start and type dsa.msc. StartThe Active Directory Users and Computers dialog displays. In the tree, right-click the Users folder for the domain controller and select New > Group. The New Object - Group dialog displays. In the tree, right-click the Users folder for the domain controller and select New > Group. UsersNew > GroupThe New Object - Group dialog displays. In the Group Name field, enter a name for the new group. For example, TrueSSO Enrollment Servers. In the Group Name field, enter a name for the new group. For example, TrueSSO Enrollment Servers. Make settings as described below. Setting Value Group scope Universal Group type Security Make settings as described below. Setting Setting Value Value Group scope Group scope Universal Universal Group type Group type Security Security Click OK. The new group appears in the tree in the Active Directory Users and Computers dialog dialog. Click OK. OKThe new group appears in the tree in the Active Directory Users and Computers dialog dialog. Right-click the group and select Properties. Right-click the group and select Properties. PropertiesOn the Member Of tab, add the computer where the Enrollment Server will be installed, and then click OK. On the Member Of tab, add the computer where the Enrollment Server will be installed, and then click OK. OKRestart the computer(s) where the Enrollment Server(s) will be installed Restart the computer(s) where the Enrollment Server(s) will be installed Configure the certificate template. Select Control Panel > Administrative Tools > Certificate Authority. In the tree, expand the local CA name. Right-click on the Certificate Templates folder and select Manage. The Certificate Templates Console displays. Right-click on the Smartcard Logon template and select Duplicate Template. The Properties of New Template dialog displays. Enter information on the tabs of the dialog as described below. Tab Settings Compatibility Select 'Show resulting changes' check box Certification Authority - Windows Server 2008 R2 Certificate recipient - Windows 7 / Server 2008 R2 General Template display name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Template name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Validity period - 1 hours Renewal period - 0 weeks Request Handling Purpose - Signature and smartcard logon Select 'For automatic renewal of smart card certificates . . .' check box Select 'Prompt the user during enrollment' radio button Cryptography Provider Category - Key Storage Provider Algorithm name - RSA Minimum key size - 2048 Select 'Requests can use any provider available . . . .' radio button Request hash - SHA256 Subject Name Select 'Build from this Active Directory Information' radio button Subject name format - Fully distinguished name Select 'User principal name (UPN) check box Server Select 'Do not store certificates and requests in the CA database' check box Issuance Requirements Require the following for enrollment - Select 'This number of authorized signatures' and enter 1 Policy type required in signature - Application policy Application policy - Certificate Request Agent Require the following for enrollment - Valid existing certificate Security In the upper part of the tab select the new group you created. Then in the lower part of the tab select 'Allow' for Read and Enroll permissions. Click OK. Configure the certificate template. Select Control Panel > Administrative Tools > Certificate Authority. Select Control Panel > Administrative Tools > Certificate Authority. Control Panel > Administrative Tools > Certificate AuthorityIn the tree, expand the local CA name. In the tree, expand the local CA name. Right-click on the Certificate Templates folder and select Manage. The Certificate Templates Console displays. Right-click on the Certificate Templates folder and select Manage. ManageThe Certificate Templates Console displays. Right-click on the Smartcard Logon template and select Duplicate Template. The Properties of New Template dialog displays. Right-click on the Smartcard Logon template and select Duplicate Template. Duplicate TemplateThe Properties of New Template dialog displays. Enter information on the tabs of the dialog as described below. Tab Settings Compatibility Select 'Show resulting changes' check box Certification Authority - Windows Server 2008 R2 Certificate recipient - Windows 7 / Server 2008 R2 General Template display name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Template name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Validity period - 1 hours Renewal period - 0 weeks Request Handling Purpose - Signature and smartcard logon Select 'For automatic renewal of smart card certificates . . .' check box Select 'Prompt the user during enrollment' radio button Cryptography Provider Category - Key Storage Provider Algorithm name - RSA Minimum key size - 2048 Select 'Requests can use any provider available . . . .' radio button Request hash - SHA256 Subject Name Select 'Build from this Active Directory Information' radio button Subject name format - Fully distinguished name Select 'User principal name (UPN) check box Server Select 'Do not store certificates and requests in the CA database' check box Issuance Requirements Require the following for enrollment - Select 'This number of authorized signatures' and enter 1 Policy type required in signature - Application policy Application policy - Certificate Request Agent Require the following for enrollment - Valid existing certificate Security In the upper part of the tab select the new group you created. Then in the lower part of the tab select 'Allow' for Read and Enroll permissions. Enter information on the tabs of the dialog as described below. Tab Tab Settings Settings Compatibility Compatibility Select 'Show resulting changes' check box Select 'Show resulting changes' check box Certification Authority - Windows Server 2008 R2 Certification Authority - Windows Server 2008 R2 Certificate recipient - Windows 7 / Server 2008 R2 Certificate recipient - Windows 7 / Server 2008 R2 General General Template display name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Template display name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Template name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Template name - Name of your choice. For example, True SSO Template. Validity period - 1 hours Validity period - 1 hours Renewal period - 0 weeks Renewal period - 0 weeks Request Handling Request Handling Purpose - Signature and smartcard logon Purpose - Signature and smartcard logon Select 'For automatic renewal of smart card certificates . . .' check box Select 'For automatic renewal of smart card certificates . . .' check box Select 'Prompt the user during enrollment' radio button Select 'Prompt the user during enrollment' radio button Cryptography Cryptography Provider Category - Key Storage Provider Provider Category - Key Storage Provider Algorithm name - RSA Algorithm name - RSA Minimum key size - 2048 Minimum key size - 2048 Select 'Requests can use any provider available . . . .' radio button Select 'Requests can use any provider available . . . .' radio button Request hash - SHA256 Request hash - SHA256 Subject Name Subject Name Select 'Build from this Active Directory Information' radio button Select 'Build from this Active Directory Information' radio button Subject name format - Fully distinguished name Subject name format - Fully distinguished name Select 'User principal name (UPN) check box Select 'User principal name (UPN) check box Server Server Select 'Do not store certificates and requests in the CA database' check box Select 'Do not store certificates and requests in the CA database' check box Issuance Requirements Issuance Requirements Require the following for enrollment - Select 'This number of authorized signatures' and enter 1 Require the following for enrollment - Select 'This number of authorized signatures' and enter 1 Policy type required in signature - Application policy Policy type required in signature - Application policy Application policy - Certificate Request Agent Application policy - Certificate Request Agent Require the following for enrollment - Valid existing certificate Require the following for enrollment - Valid existing certificate Security Security In the upper part of the tab select the new group you created. Then in the lower part of the tab select 'Allow' for Read and Enroll permissions. In the upper part of the tab select the new group you created. Then in the lower part of the tab select 'Allow' for Read and Enroll permissions. Click OK. Click OK. OKIssue the template for True SSO. Right-click again on the Certificate Templates folder and select New > Certificate Template to Issue. The Enable Certificate Templates dialog displays. Select TrueSsoTemplate and click OK. Issue the template for True SSO. Right-click again on the Certificate Templates folder and select New > Certificate Template to Issue. The Enable Certificate Templates dialog displays. Right-click again on the Certificate Templates folder and select New > Certificate Template to Issue. New > Certificate Template to IssueThe Enable Certificate Templates dialog displays. Select TrueSsoTemplate and click OK. Select TrueSsoTemplate and click OK. OKIssue the Enrollment Agent template. Right-click again on the Certificate Templates folder and select New > Certificate Template to Issue. The Enable Certificate Templates dialog displays. Select the Enrollment Agent computer and click OK. Note: This template must have the same security settings as the template issued in the previous step. The CA is now set up and configured with a certificate template suitable for use with True SSO. Issue the Enrollment Agent template. Right-click again on the Certificate Templates folder and select New > Certificate Template to Issue. The Enable Certificate Templates dialog displays. Right-click again on the Certificate Templates folder and select New > Certificate Template to Issue. New > Certificate Template to IssueThe Enable Certificate Templates dialog displays. Select the Enrollment Agent computer and click OK. Note: This template must have the same security settings as the template issued in the previous step. Select the Enrollment Agent computer and click OK. OKNote:This template must have the same security settings as the template issued in the previous step. The CA is now set up and configured with a certificate template suitable for use with True SSO. Download the Horizon Cloud pairing bundle by following the steps in Download the Horizon Cloud Pairing Bundle. Download the Horizon Cloud pairing bundle by following the steps in Download the Horizon Cloud Pairing Bundle. Horizon CloudDownload the Horizon Cloud Pairing BundleParent topic:Configure True SSO for Use with Your Horizon Cloud EnvironmentPrevious topic:Install and Configure a Windows Server 2012 R2 Certificate AuthorityNext topic:Download the Horizon Cloud Pairing BundleVMware, Inc x 