VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineAfter you have successfully deployed your first node and it is successfully paired with Horizon Cloud, you log in to Horizon Cloud at cloud.horizon.vmware.com to register an Active Directory domain, perform the domain join and bind, and assign the super administrator role to at least one of the groups in that domain. Horizon CloudHorizon CloudAbout this taskImportant:You must finish the entire Active Directory registration process for the first domain you are registering before you can perform other activities in the Administration Console. All services are locked until you finish these tasks. If the registration step is not complete, a Delete button is displayed on the Getting Started page and you can click it to delete the node. DeleteImportant:ouraccountnamePrerequisitesEnsure that the Active Directory infrastructure is synchronized to an accurate time source to prevent the domain join from failing. Such a failure requires you to contact VMware Support for assistance. Verify that your first node is successfully deployed. The Capacity section of the Getting Started wizard indicates whether the first node is successfully deployed by displaying a green checkmark icon (). For the required primary and auxiliary domain-bind accounts, verify you have the information for two Active Directory user accounts that adhere to the requirements described in the prerequisites checklist document, including: prerequisites checklist documentThe account passwords cannot expire, change, or be locked out. The account passwords cannot expire, change, or be locked out. Caution:Ensure that your domain-bind accounts cannot expire, change, or be locked out. You must use this type of account configuration because the system uses the primary domain-bind account as a service account to query Active Directory. If the primary domain-bind account becomes inaccessible for some reason, the system then uses the auxiliary domain-bind account. For the required domain-join account, verify you have the information for the Active Directory user account that has domain-join permissions because the system uses this account to join the desktops to the domain. This account requires the following Active Directory permissions: Create Computer Objects, Delete Computer Objects, and Write All. The domain-join account also must be in an Active Directory group that you add to the Super Administrators role in the Administration Console. The Horizon Cloud roles can be assigned at a group-level only. This point is critical for the domain-join account. If the domain-join account that you register for your initial node is not already in one of the Active Directory groups to which you can assign the Super Administrators role, create an Active Directory group for that account so that you can ensure the Super Administrators role can be assigned to that domain-join account. Important:The domain-join account used when registering the domain must be in one of the Active Directory groups that is granted the super administrator role. If not, system operations that involve joining virtual machines to the domain will fail, such as when importing master images or creating RDSH farms and virtual desktops. ProcedureOpen a browser to Horizon Cloud at https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com. Open a browser to Horizon Cloud at https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com. Horizon Cloudhttps://cloud.horizon.vmware.comLog in using the My VMware credentials associated with the Horizon Cloud environment. If you have not previously accepted the Horizon Cloud terms of service using those My VMware credentials, a terms of service notification box appears after you click the Login button. Accept the terms of service to continue. The Administration Console opens and displays the Getting Started wizard. If the Getting Started wizard is not displayed when you first log in, open it by clicking Settings > Getting Started. Log in using the My VMware credentials associated with the Horizon Cloud environment. My VMwareHorizon CloudIf you have not previously accepted the Horizon Cloud terms of service using those My VMware credentials, a terms of service notification box appears after you click the Login button. Accept the terms of service to continue. Horizon CloudLoginThe Administration Console opens and displays the Getting Started wizard. If the Getting Started wizard is not displayed when you first log in, open it by clicking Settings > Getting Started. Settings > Getting StartedSettingsGetting StartedIn the Getting Started wizard, expand General Setup section if it is not already expanded. In the Getting Started wizard, expand General Setup section if it is not already expanded. General SetupUnder Active Directory, click Configure. Under Active Directory, click Configure. ConfigureIn the Register Active Directory dialog box, provide the requested registration information. Important: Use Active Directory accounts that adhere to the guidelines for the primary and auxiliary domain-bind accounts as described in the prerequisites. Option Description NETBIOS Name Active Directory domain name DNS Domain Name Fully qualified Active Directory domain name Protocol Automatically displays LDAP, the supported protocol. Bind Username User account in the domain to use as the primary LDAP bind account. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Bind Password The password associated with the name in the Bind Username text box. Auxiliary Account #1 In the Bind Username and Bind Password fields, type a user account in the domain to use as the auxiliary LDAP bind account and its associated password. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. You can optionally provide values for advanced properties. Option Description Port The default is LDAP -> 389. You do not need to modify this text box unless you are using a non-standard port. Domain Controller IP (Optional) If you want Active Directory traffic to use a specific domain controller, type the preferred domain controller IP addresses, separated by commas. If this text box is left blank, the system uses any domain controller available for this Active Directory domain. Context LDAP naming context. This text box is autopopulated based on the information provided in the DNS Domain Name text box. In the Register Active Directory dialog box, provide the requested registration information. Important:Use Active Directory accounts that adhere to the guidelines for the primary and auxiliary domain-bind accounts as described in the prerequisites. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionNETBIOS Name NETBIOS Name Active Directory domain name Active Directory domain name DNS Domain Name DNS Domain Name Fully qualified Active Directory domain nameFully qualified Active Directory domain nameProtocol Protocol Automatically displays LDAP, the supported protocol.Automatically displays LDAP, the supported protocol.LDAPBind Username Bind Username Bind UsernameUser account in the domain to use as the primary LDAP bind account. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. User account in the domain to use as the primary LDAP bind account. Note:Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Bind Password Bind Password The password associated with the name in the Bind Username text box.The password associated with the name in the Bind Username text box.Bind UsernameAuxiliary Account #1Auxiliary Account #1In the Bind Username and Bind Password fields, type a user account in the domain to use as the auxiliary LDAP bind account and its associated password. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. In the Bind Username and Bind Password fields, type a user account in the domain to use as the auxiliary LDAP bind account and its associated password. Bind UsernameBind PasswordNote:Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. You can optionally provide values for advanced properties. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionPort Port The default is LDAP -> 389. You do not need to modify this text box unless you are using a non-standard port.The default is LDAP -> 389. You do not need to modify this text box unless you are using a non-standard port.LDAP -> 389Domain Controller IP Domain Controller IP Context Context LDAP naming context. This text box is autopopulated based on the information provided in the DNS Domain Name text box. LDAP naming context. This text box is autopopulated based on the information provided in the DNS Domain Name text box. DNS Domain NameClick Domain Bind. When the domain bind process succeeds, the Domain Join dialog box appears and you can continue to the next step. Important: If the domain-bind process fails, but you proceed to add the domain-join account, the registration process is not fully complete, even if you can add the domain-join account. If this situation occurs, contact support for assistance. Click Domain Bind. Domain BindWhen the domain bind process succeeds, the Domain Join dialog box appears and you can continue to the next step. Important:If the domain-bind process fails, but you proceed to add the domain-join account, the registration process is not fully complete, even if you can add the domain-join account. If this situation occurs, contact support for assistance. In the Domain Join dialog box, provide the domain-join information. Note: Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the guidelines for the domain-join account described in the prerequisites. Option Description Join Username User account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Join Password The password associated with the name in the Join Username text box. Primary DNS Server IP IP address of the primary DNS Server. This DNS server must be able to resolve machine names inside of your Microsoft Azure cloud as well as resolve external names. Secondary DNS Server IP (Optional) IP of a secondary DNS Server Default OU Active Directory organization unit to have the desktop image resources, such as OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent. The system default is CN=Computers. Note: For a description of nested organization names, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units. Each individual entered OU must be 64 characters long or less, not counting the OU= portion of your entry. Microsoft limits an individual OU to 64 characters or less. An OU path that is longer than 64 characters, but with no individual OU having more than 64 characters, is valid. However, each individual OU must be 64 characters or less. In the Domain Join dialog box, provide the domain-join information. Note:Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the guidelines for the domain-join account described in the prerequisites. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionJoin UsernameJoin UsernameUser account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. User account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Note:Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Join Password Join Password The password associated with the name in the Join Username text box.The password associated with the name in the Join Username text box.Join UsernamePrimary DNS Server IP Primary DNS Server IP IP address of the primary DNS Server. This DNS server must be able to resolve machine names inside of your Microsoft Azure cloud as well as resolve external names.IP address of the primary DNS Server. This DNS server must be able to resolve machine names inside of your Microsoft Azure cloud as well as resolve external names.Secondary DNS Server IPSecondary DNS Server IPDefault OUDefault OUActive Directory organization unit to have the desktop image resources, such as OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent. The system default is CN=Computers. Note: For a description of nested organization names, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units. Each individual entered OU must be 64 characters long or less, not counting the OU= portion of your entry. Microsoft limits an individual OU to 64 characters or less. An OU path that is longer than 64 characters, but with no individual OU having more than 64 characters, is valid. However, each individual OU must be 64 characters or less. Active Directory organization unit to have the desktop image resources, such as OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent. The system default is CN=Computers. OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponentCN=ComputersNote:For a description of nested organization names, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units. Each individual entered OU must be 64 characters long or less, not counting the OU= portion of your entry. Microsoft limits an individual OU to 64 characters or less. An OU path that is longer than 64 characters, but with no individual OU having more than 64 characters, is valid. However, each individual OU must be 64 characters or less. Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational UnitsOU=Specify an auxiliary domain-join account. If the primary domain-join account you specified becomes inaccessible, the system uses the auxiliary domain-join account for tasks that require joining the domain. Note:Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the same guidelines for the primary domain-join account described in the prerequisites. Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the same guidelines for the primary domain-join account described in the prerequisites. You can add only one auxiliary domain-join account for each Active Directory you register with Horizon Cloud. You can add only one auxiliary domain-join account for each Active Directory you register with Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudIf you do not add an auxiliary domain-join account at this time, you can add one later using the Administration Console. If you do not add an auxiliary domain-join account at this time, you can add one later using the Administration Console. You can update or remove this account later. You can update or remove this account later. The agent software on a desktop must be version 18.1 or later for the system to use the auxiliary domain-join account with that desktop. The agent software on a desktop must be version 18.1 or later for the system to use the auxiliary domain-join account with that desktop. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionAuxiliary Join UsernameAuxiliary Join UsernameUser account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Important: Only provide the account name in this field, such as ourauxjoinaccountname. Do not include the domain information, do not include the NETBIOS name, and do not add any additional pieces on to the account name in this field. If additional pieces are added to the pure account name here, an error can occur when you submit the form. User account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Important:Only provide the account name in this field, such as ourauxjoinaccountname. Do not include the domain information, do not include the NETBIOS name, and do not add any additional pieces on to the account name in this field. If additional pieces are added to the pure account name here, an error can occur when you submit the form. ourauxjoinaccountnameAuxiliary Join Password Auxiliary Join Password The password associated with the name in the Auxiliary Join Username text box.The password associated with the name in the Auxiliary Join Username text box.Auxiliary Join UsernameClick Save. When the domain join process succeeds, the Add Super Administrator dialog box appears and you can continue to the next step. Important: If the domain-join process fails, the registration process is not fully complete. If this situation occurs, contact support for assistance. Click Save. SaveWhen the domain join process succeeds, the Add Super Administrator dialog box appears and you can continue to the next step. Important:If the domain-join process fails, the registration process is not fully complete. If this situation occurs, contact support for assistance. In the Add Super Administrator dialog box, use the Active Directory search function to select the Active Directory administrator group you want performing management actions on your environment using the Administration Console. This assignment ensures that at least one of your Active Directory domain's user accounts is granted the permissions to perform management actions in the Administration Console now that the node is joined to the domain. Important: To the Super Administrator role, add the Active Directory group which includes the domain-join account, as described in the prerequisites. If the domain-join account is not in any of the Active Directory groups that have the Super Administrator role, subsequent system operations that involve joining virtual machines to the domain will fail. In the Add Super Administrator dialog box, use the Active Directory search function to select the Active Directory administrator group you want performing management actions on your environment using the Administration Console. This assignment ensures that at least one of your Active Directory domain's user accounts is granted the permissions to perform management actions in the Administration Console now that the node is joined to the domain. Important:To the Super Administrator role, add the Active Directory group which includes the domain-join account, as described in the prerequisites. If the domain-join account is not in any of the Active Directory groups that have the Super Administrator role, subsequent system operations that involve joining virtual machines to the domain will fail. Click Save. When you click Save, the system returns you to the login screen. Now that you have registered the node with your Active Directory domain, the system requires you to log back in: first with your My VMware account and then with the Active Directory account credentials of a user that is in the Active Directory group to which you just assigned the Super Administrator role. Click Save. SaveWhen you click Save, the system returns you to the login screen. Now that you have registered the node with your Active Directory domain, the system requires you to log back in: first with your My VMware account and then with the Active Directory account credentials of a user that is in the Active Directory group to which you just assigned the Super Administrator role. SaveMy VMwareResultsThe following items are now in place: The node is joined to the Active Directory domain. The node is joined to the Active Directory domain. Management activities in the Administration Console are now available. Management activities in the Administration Console are now available. The domain-join account has the required Super Administrator role, so that operations involving joining VMs to the domain will operate properly. The domain-join account has the required Super Administrator role, so that operations involving joining VMs to the domain will operate properly. Signing in to the Administration Console to perform management tasks has two login screens: first a My VMware login to Horizon Cloud and then an Active Directory login using an account from the group with the super administrator role. Signing in to the Administration Console to perform management tasks has two login screens: first a My VMware login to Horizon Cloud and then an Active Directory login using an account from the group with the super administrator role. My VMwareHorizon CloudUsers in the group to which you granted the super administrator role will be able to access the Administration Console and perform management activities when they use the associated My VMware account for the first login screen. To enable those administrators to use their own My VMware account credentials for the first login step, complete the steps described in Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization. Users in the group to which you granted the super administrator role will be able to access the Administration Console and perform management activities when they use the associated My VMware account for the first login screen. To enable those administrators to use their own My VMware account credentials for the first login step, complete the steps described in Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization. My VMwareMy VMwareGive Administrative Access to People in Your OrganizationUser accounts in the joined Active Directory domain can be selected for assignments using the Administration Console, such as desktop assignments. User accounts in the joined Active Directory domain can be selected for assignments using the Administration Console, such as desktop assignments. What to do nextFrom this point, you typically perform the following tasks: Add additional auxiliary bind accounts to this Active Directory domain configuration. If the primary and first bind accounts you specified become inaccessible, the system uses the next auxiliary bind account to connect to the Active Directory. Having auxiliary bind accounts avoids locking out your administrator users from the Administration Console in situations where the primary bind account is inaccessible in the Active Directory domain. Add Additional Auxiliary Bind Accounts for an Active Directory Domain Registered to Your Horizon Cloud Node. Add additional auxiliary bind accounts to this Active Directory domain configuration. If the primary and first bind accounts you specified become inaccessible, the system uses the next auxiliary bind account to connect to the Active Directory. Having auxiliary bind accounts avoids locking out your administrator users from the Administration Console in situations where the primary bind account is inaccessible in the Active Directory domain. Add Additional Auxiliary Bind Accounts for an Active Directory Domain Registered to Your Horizon Cloud Node. Add Additional Auxiliary Bind Accounts for an Active Directory Domain Registered to Your Horizon Cloud NodeGrant access to additional users to administer your environment. First add their My VMware accounts with associated Horizon Cloud roles, and then give their Active Directory accounts the appropriate Horizon Cloud role. See Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization and Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Grant access to additional users to administer your environment. First add their My VMware accounts with associated Horizon Cloud roles, and then give their Active Directory accounts the appropriate Horizon Cloud role. See Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization and Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. My VMwareHorizon CloudHorizon CloudGive Administrative Access to People in Your OrganizationAssign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsContinue with the Getting Started wizard's steps. See About the Horizon Cloud Getting Started Wizard. Continue with the Getting Started wizard's steps. See About the Horizon Cloud Getting Started Wizard. About the Horizon Cloud Getting Started WizardNavigate to other areas of the Administration Console to perform management tasks. See About Menu Selections in the Administration Console. Navigate to other areas of the Administration Console to perform management tasks. See About Menu Selections in the Administration Console. About Menu Selections in the Administration ConsoleIf you have additional Active Directory domains with users to whom you want to grant management access to the Administration Console or end users to whom you want to give assignments, you can register those Active Directory domains also. See Register Additional Active Directory Domains with Your Horizon Cloud Node. If you have additional Active Directory domains with users to whom you want to grant management access to the Administration Console or end users to whom you want to give assignments, you can register those Active Directory domains also. See Register Additional Active Directory Domains with Your Horizon Cloud Node. Register Additional Active Directory Domains with Your Horizon Cloud NodeAssign the demo administrator role to those users in this domain to whom you want to grant read-only access to the Administration Console. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Assign the demo administrator role to those users in this domain to whom you want to grant read-only access to the Administration Console. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsParent topic:Getting Started Using Your Horizon Cloud EnvironmentVMware, Inc x 