VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineAfter you create an assignment, you can manage the assignment using the Administration Console. The types of assignments in your environment depend on what you have created. You work with assignments from the Administration Console's Assignments page. The types of actions you can use on an assignment depends on the assignment's type. As an example, on the Assignments page, the Update Agent action applies only to dedicated VDI desktop assignments, while the Delete action can be used on all assignment types. For information about creating assignments, see the respective instructions. Update AgentDeleteThe following table provides links to the steps for creating various assignment types. Assignment Type Assignment Type Instructions Instructions VDI desktop VDI desktop Create a Floating VDI Desktop Assignment Create a Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignment Create a Floating VDI Desktop Assignment Create a Floating VDI Desktop AssignmentCreate a Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignment Create a Dedicated VDI Desktop AssignmentSession-based desktop Session-based desktop Create an RDSH-Session-Based Desktop Assignment Create an RDSH-Session-Based Desktop Assignment Create an RDSH-Session-Based Desktop AssignmentRemote application Remote application Create a Remote Application Assignment Create a Remote Application Assignment Create a Remote Application AssignmentURL redirection customization URL redirection customization See Create a URL Redirection Customization and Assign it to Users . See Create a URL Redirection Customization and Assign it to Users . Create a URL Redirection Customization and Assign it to UsersAt a page level, you can select the check box next to an existing assignment and click one of the buttons to perform its associated action on the assignment. Edit EditClicking this button launches a wizard in which you can change the editable settings in the assignment. The wizard is similar to the creation wizard for that assignment type, with read-only fields for those settings that cannot be changed. For detailed descriptions of the fields, see the creation topics at the above links. Alternatively, instead of using the Edit button, you can click an assignment's name and update the settings from the assignment's summary page. EditTake Offline Take OfflineThis action applies to floating VDI desktop assignments, dedicated VDI desktop assignments, and URL redirection customization assignments. Clicking this button opens a window in which you can select to take the assignment offline. The system behavior when you take an assignment offline depends on the assignment type: For an active URL redirection customization assignment, you use Take Offline to turn off the URL redirection behavior defined in the assignment. For an active URL redirection customization assignment, you use Take Offline to turn off the URL redirection behavior defined in the assignment. Take OfflineFor VDI desktop assignments, you use Take Offline to take the assignments off line to perform maintenance actions that would impact incoming connection requests. When you click Take Offline for a VDI desktop assignment, the system puts the assignment into offline mode and prevents users from logging in to the assignment's desktops. Note: Due to a known issue in this release, image update does not start in an offline assignment. Even though you can edit the offline assignment to have it use an updated image, the system does not start the update operation until you bring the assignment back online. For VDI desktop assignments, you use Take Offline to take the assignments off line to perform maintenance actions that would impact incoming connection requests. When you click Take Offline for a VDI desktop assignment, the system puts the assignment into offline mode and prevents users from logging in to the assignment's desktops. Take OfflineTake OfflineNote:Due to a known issue in this release, image update does not start in an offline assignment. Even though you can edit the offline assignment to have it use an updated image, the system does not start the update operation until you bring the assignment back online. Bring Online Bring OnlineClicking this button opens a window in which you can select to bring an offline assignment back online. Delete DeleteYou use this button to delete the selected assignment. See Delete an Assignment. Delete an AssignmentActions You Can Perform Within a VDI Desktop Assignment's Detailed PagesFor VDI desktop assignments, you can perform actions specific those assignment types from within the assignment's detailed pages. From the Assignments page, click a VDI desktop assignment's name to see its detailed pages. Initially the Summary page is displayed. Summary page The Summary page displays the VDI desktop assignment's current settings. For each page section, you can click Edit to change those settings that the system allows to be updated for an existing VDI desktop assignment. Some settings cannot be changed on a VDI desktop assignment after it is created, such as its node. EditDesktops page The Desktops page displays the existing desktop instances in the VDI desktop assignment. The actions you can perform on a selected desktop are power on or off (depending on the desktop's current state) and delete. For a desktop in floating VDI desktop assignments, you can power it off (if the desktop is powered on), and log off or disconnect the currently connected user (if any). Even though additional actions might be visible, they are disabled. Note: Do not manually delete a desktop in a floating VDI desktop assignment, because the system's power management feature will automatically creates a new desktop VM to take the place of the deleted one. To adjust the number of desktops in a floating VDI desktop assignment, see Resizing a VDI Desktop Assignment. For a desktop in floating VDI desktop assignments, you can power it off (if the desktop is powered on), and log off or disconnect the currently connected user (if any). Even though additional actions might be visible, they are disabled. Note:Do not manually delete a desktop in a floating VDI desktop assignment, because the system's power management feature will automatically creates a new desktop VM to take the place of the deleted one. To adjust the number of desktops in a floating VDI desktop assignment, see Resizing a VDI Desktop Assignment. Resizing a VDI Desktop AssignmentFor a desktop in dedicated VDI desktop assignments, you can power it on or off (depending on the desktop's current state), restart it, log off or disconnect the currently connected user (if any), assign the desktop to a specific user (if the desktop is unassigned), and unassign the desktop (if the desktop is assigned to a user). Unassigning the desktop removes the mapping of the desktop to that user and makes it available to be mapped to a different user. Note: Do not manually power on a desktop, even if the action is available in the Desktops page. Manually powering on a desktop might conflict with the power management settings that are set in the dedicated VDI desktop assignment. If you manually power on a desktop, unexpected results of other desktops powering off might occur. Instead of powering on a desktop, use the Restart action. For a desktop in dedicated VDI desktop assignments, you can power it on or off (depending on the desktop's current state), restart it, log off or disconnect the currently connected user (if any), assign the desktop to a specific user (if the desktop is unassigned), and unassign the desktop (if the desktop is assigned to a user). Unassigning the desktop removes the mapping of the desktop to that user and makes it available to be mapped to a different user. Note:Do not manually power on a desktop, even if the action is available in the Desktops page. Manually powering on a desktop might conflict with the power management settings that are set in the dedicated VDI desktop assignment. If you manually power on a desktop, unexpected results of other desktops powering off might occur. Instead of powering on a desktop, use the Restart action. RestartSystem Activity page The System Activity page displays activity in the desktop assignment due to system actions, such as powering off desktops to meet the power management schedule. You can cancel assignment-related tasks before they complete by selecting the task in the list and clicking Cancel Tasks. Cancel TasksBefore attempting to select a task for cancellation, refresh the view to update the status for the tasks displayed. Before attempting to select a task for cancellation, refresh the view to update the status for the tasks displayed. If a task is currently in a state where the system allows you to cancel it, you can select the check box corresponding to that cancellable task. If you select all of the listed tasks by selecting the topmost check box, only those tasks that are currently cancellable are selected. If a task is currently in a state where the system allows you to cancel it, you can select the check box corresponding to that cancellable task. If you select all of the listed tasks by selecting the topmost check box, only those tasks that are currently cancellable are selected. Assignment expansion tasks are sometimes cancellable when they are in queued status. They are not cancellable when they are running. Assignment expansion tasks are sometimes cancellable when they are in queued status. They are not cancellable when they are running. Assignment refresh tasks, where the system is pushing updates to the assignments, are sometimes cancellable when they are queued or running. Assignment refresh tasks, where the system is pushing updates to the assignments, are sometimes cancellable when they are queued or running. When the system has automatically created an expansion task for a VDI desktop assignment, the assignment must be offline before you can cancel that task. When the system has automatically created an expansion task for a VDI desktop assignment, the assignment must be offline before you can cancel that task. User Activity page The User Activity page displays activity in the VDI desktop assignment due to user actions, such as logging on and logging off sessions provided by the assignment. View an AssignmentUse the Assignments page to get an overview or detailed view of all the assignment types. You can view the details of individual assignments by clicking the respective assignment. For some assignment types, you can click on hyperlinks in the page to navigate to where you can perform actions on the individual assets used in that assignment. View an AssignmentView an AssignmentEdit an AssignmentYou can edit any assignment type from the Assignments page. The specific properties you can change depends on the assignment type. Edit an AssignmentEdit an AssignmentDelete an AssignmentYou can delete assignments if they are no longer needed. From the Assignments page, Delete is under the ... menu (... > Delete). Delete an AssignmentDelete an AssignmentDeleteDeleteResizing a VDI Desktop AssignmentWhen you create VDI desktop assignments, you assign an initial capacity of VDI desktop instances using the Max Desktops value. As the user population changes, you might need to expand or shrink the VDI desktop assignment. Resizing a VDI Desktop AssignmentResizing a VDI Desktop AssignmentMax DesktopsRecover Desktops in a VDI Desktop AssignmentIf desktops in an assignment encounter errors during a previous update, or if they do not power back on after an image update, you can try using the Recover action on the desktop assignment. Recover Desktops in a VDI Desktop AssignmentRecover Desktops in a VDI Desktop AssignmentRecoverAbout Network Security Groups and Your VDI DesktopsFor every Horizon Cloud node deployed into your Microsoft Azure cloud, a network security group (NSG) is also created in the node's resource group. This NSG's purpose is to serve as a template that enables you to open additional ports that might be needed for the VDI desktops provided by your VDI desktop assignments. About Network Security Groups and Your VDI DesktopsAbout Network Security Groups and Your VDI DesktopsHorizon CloudVMware, Inc x 