VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou can optionally register additional Active Directory domains with your node to assign management roles or provide assignments to users in those domains. About this taskImportant:ouraccountnamePrerequisitesEnsure that the Active Directory infrastructure is synchronized to an accurate time source to prevent the domain join from failing. Such a failure requires you to contact VMware Support for assistance. For the required primary and auxiliary domain-bind accounts, verify you have the information for two Active Directory user accounts that adhere to the requirements described in the prerequisites checklist document, including: prerequisites checklist documentThe account passwords cannot expire, change, or be locked out. The account passwords cannot expire, change, or be locked out. Caution:Ensure that your domain-bind accounts cannot expire, change, or be locked out. You must use this type of account configuration because the system uses the primary domain-bind account as a service account to query Active Directory. If the primary domain-bind account becomes inaccessible for some reason, the system then uses the auxiliary domain-bind account. For the required domain-join account, verify you have the information for the Active Directory user account that has domain-join permissions because the system uses this account to join the desktops to the domain. This account requires the following Active Directory permissions: Create Computer Objects, Delete Computer Objects, and Write All. The domain-join account also must be in an Active Directory group that you add to the Super Administrators role in the Administration Console. The Horizon Cloud roles can be assigned at a group-level only. This point is critical for the domain-join account. If the domain-join account that you register for your initial node is not already in one of the Active Directory groups to which you can assign the Super Administrators role, create an Active Directory group for that account so that you can ensure the Super Administrators role can be assigned to that domain-join account. Caution:When you register an additional Active Directory domain, ensure that all of the nodes that you see managed in the Administration Console can reach that domain. All of the nodes for the same customer account record need to be able to reach the same Active Directory servers and the DNS configuration needs to resolve all of those Active Directory domains. ProcedureIn the Administration Console, select Settings > Active Directory. In the Administration Console, select Settings > Active Directory. Settings > Active DirectorySettingsActive DirectoryClick Register. Click Register. RegisterIn the Register Active Directory dialog box, provide the requested registration information. Important: Use Active Directory accounts that adhere to the guidelines for the primary and auxiliary domain-bind accounts as described in the prerequisites. Option Description NETBIOS Name Active Directory domain name DNS Domain Name Fully qualified Active Directory domain name Protocol Automatically displays LDAP, the supported protocol. Bind Username User account in the domain to use as the primary LDAP bind account. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Bind Password The password associated with the name in the Bind Username text box. Auxiliary Account #1 In the Bind Username and Bind Password fields, type a user account in the domain to use as the auxiliary LDAP bind account and its associated password. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. In the Register Active Directory dialog box, provide the requested registration information. Important:Use Active Directory accounts that adhere to the guidelines for the primary and auxiliary domain-bind accounts as described in the prerequisites. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionNETBIOS Name NETBIOS Name Active Directory domain name Active Directory domain name DNS Domain Name DNS Domain Name Fully qualified Active Directory domain nameFully qualified Active Directory domain nameProtocol Protocol Automatically displays LDAP, the supported protocol.Automatically displays LDAP, the supported protocol.LDAPBind Username Bind Username Bind UsernameUser account in the domain to use as the primary LDAP bind account. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. User account in the domain to use as the primary LDAP bind account. Note:Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Bind Password Bind Password The password associated with the name in the Bind Username text box.The password associated with the name in the Bind Username text box.Bind UsernameAuxiliary Account #1Auxiliary Account #1In the Bind Username and Bind Password fields, type a user account in the domain to use as the auxiliary LDAP bind account and its associated password. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. In the Bind Username and Bind Password fields, type a user account in the domain to use as the auxiliary LDAP bind account and its associated password. Bind UsernameBind PasswordNote:Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Click Domain Bind. The Domain Join dialog box appears. Click Domain Bind. Domain BindThe Domain Join dialog box appears. In the Domain Join dialog box, provide the domain-join information. Note: Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the guidelines for the domain-join account described in the prerequisites. Option Description Join Username User account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Join Password The password associated with the name in the Join Username text box. Primary DNS Server IP IP address of the primary DNS Server Secondary DNS Server IP (Optional) IP of a secondary DNS Server Default OU Active Directory organization unit to have the desktop image resources, such as OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent. The system default is CN=Computers. Note: For a description of nested organization names, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units. Each individual entered OU must be 64 characters long or less, not counting the OU= portion of your entry. Microsoft limits an individual OU to 64 characters or less. An OU path that is longer than 64 characters, but with no individual OU having more than 64 characters, is valid. However, each individual OU must be 64 characters or less. In the Domain Join dialog box, provide the domain-join information. Note:Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the guidelines for the domain-join account described in the prerequisites. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionJoin UsernameJoin UsernameUser account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Note: Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. User account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Note:Only provide the user name itself. Do not include the domain name here. Join Password Join Password The password associated with the name in the Join Username text box.The password associated with the name in the Join Username text box.Join UsernamePrimary DNS Server IP Primary DNS Server IP IP address of the primary DNS ServerIP address of the primary DNS ServerSecondary DNS Server IPSecondary DNS Server IPDefault OUDefault OUActive Directory organization unit to have the desktop image resources, such as OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent. The system default is CN=Computers. Note: For a description of nested organization names, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units. Each individual entered OU must be 64 characters long or less, not counting the OU= portion of your entry. Microsoft limits an individual OU to 64 characters or less. An OU path that is longer than 64 characters, but with no individual OU having more than 64 characters, is valid. However, each individual OU must be 64 characters or less. Active Directory organization unit to have the desktop image resources, such as OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponent. The system default is CN=Computers. OU=NestedOrgName, OU=RootOrgName,DC=DomainComponentCN=ComputersNote:For a description of nested organization names, see Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational Units. Each individual entered OU must be 64 characters long or less, not counting the OU= portion of your entry. Microsoft limits an individual OU to 64 characters or less. An OU path that is longer than 64 characters, but with no individual OU having more than 64 characters, is valid. However, each individual OU must be 64 characters or less. Considerations For Using Nested Active Directory Domain Organizational UnitsOU=Specify an auxiliary domain-join account. If the primary domain-join account you specified becomes inaccessible, the system uses the auxiliary domain-join account for tasks that require joining the domain. Note:Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the same guidelines for the primary domain-join account described in the prerequisites. Use an Active Directory account that adheres to the same guidelines for the primary domain-join account described in the prerequisites. You can add only one auxiliary domain-join account for each Active Directory you register with Horizon Cloud. You can add only one auxiliary domain-join account for each Active Directory you register with Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudIf you do not add an auxiliary domain-join account at this time, you can add one later using the Administration Console. If you do not add an auxiliary domain-join account at this time, you can add one later using the Administration Console. You can update or remove this account later. You can update or remove this account later. The agent software on a desktop must be version 18.1 or later for the system to use the auxiliary domain-join account with that desktop. The agent software on a desktop must be version 18.1 or later for the system to use the auxiliary domain-join account with that desktop. OptionOptionDescriptionDescriptionAuxiliary Join UsernameAuxiliary Join UsernameUser account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Important: Only provide the account name in this field, such as ourauxjoinaccountname. Do not include the domain information, do not include the NETBIOS name, and do not add any additional pieces on to the account name in this field. If additional pieces are added to the pure account name here, an error can occur when you submit the form. User account in the Active Directory that has permissions to join systems to that Active Directory domain. Important:Only provide the account name in this field, such as ourauxjoinaccountname. Do not include the domain information, do not include the NETBIOS name, and do not add any additional pieces on to the account name in this field. If additional pieces are added to the pure account name here, an error can occur when you submit the form. ourauxjoinaccountnameAuxiliary Join Password Auxiliary Join Password The password associated with the name in the Auxiliary Join Username text box.The password associated with the name in the Auxiliary Join Username text box.Auxiliary Join UsernameClick Save. At this point, if the domain join process succeeds, the Add Administrator dialog box appears and you can continue to the next step. Click Save. SaveAt this point, if the domain join process succeeds, the Add Administrator dialog box appears and you can continue to the next step. In the Add Super Administrator dialog box, use the Active Directory search function to add a group from this Active Directory that you want performing management actions on your environment using the Administration Console. Important: To the Super Administrator role, add the Active Directory group which includes the domain-join account, as described in the prerequisites. If the domain-join account is not in any of the Active Directory groups that have the Super Administrator role, subsequent system operations that involve joining virtual machines to this domain will fail. In the Add Super Administrator dialog box, use the Active Directory search function to add a group from this Active Directory that you want performing management actions on your environment using the Administration Console. Important:To the Super Administrator role, add the Active Directory group which includes the domain-join account, as described in the prerequisites. If the domain-join account is not in any of the Active Directory groups that have the Super Administrator role, subsequent system operations that involve joining virtual machines to this domain will fail. Click Save. Click Save. SaveResultsThe following items are now in place: The Horizon Cloud node is joined to the Active Directory domain. The Horizon Cloud node is joined to the Active Directory domain. Horizon Cloud nodeThe domain-join account has the required super administrator role, so that operations involving joining VMs to the domain will operate properly. The domain-join account has the required super administrator role, so that operations involving joining VMs to the domain will operate properly. After logging in to Horizon Cloud using your My VMware credentials, in the Active Directory login window, users in that Active Directory that have an assigned Horizon Cloud role can select the domain that corresponds to their Active Directory account. After logging in to Horizon Cloud using your My VMware credentials, in the Active Directory login window, users in that Active Directory that have an assigned Horizon Cloud role can select the domain that corresponds to their Active Directory account. Horizon CloudMy VMwareHorizon CloudUsers in the group to which you granted the super administrator role can access the Administration Console and perform management activities. Users in the group to which you granted the super administrator role can access the Administration Console and perform management activities. User accounts in the joined Active Directory domain can be selected for assignments using the Administration Console, such as desktop assignments. User accounts in the joined Active Directory domain can be selected for assignments using the Administration Console, such as desktop assignments. What to do nextFrom this point, you typically perform the following tasks: Grant access to additional users in this domain to administer your environment. First add their My VMware accounts with associated Horizon Cloud roles, and then give their Active Directory accounts the appropriate Horizon Cloud role. See Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization and Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Grant access to additional users in this domain to administer your environment. First add their My VMware accounts with associated Horizon Cloud roles, and then give their Active Directory accounts the appropriate Horizon Cloud role. See Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization and Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. My VMwareHorizon CloudHorizon CloudGive Administrative Access to People in Your OrganizationAssign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsAssign the demo administrator role to those users in this domain to whom you want to grant read-only access to the Administration Console. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Assign the demo administrator role to those users in this domain to whom you want to grant read-only access to the Administration Console. See Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory Groups. Assign Horizon Cloud Administrative Roles to Active Directory GroupsParent topic:Getting Started Using Your Horizon Cloud EnvironmentVMware, Inc x 