VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineWith Horizon Cloud, your end users can securely access their desktops and applications from any device. You can choose where the desktops and applications reside, based on the location of your capacity environment. To have them located in a public cloud that is supported for use with Horizon Cloud, such as Microsoft Azure, you must obtain a subscription for cloud capacity from the cloud services provider and then bring that subscription information to pair that cloud capacity with Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudHorizon CloudHorizon CloudThe overall environment consists of the VMware-hosted cloud service, your provided capacity, and VMware software deployed into that capacity. Setting up the environment involves deploying the required VMware software into your capacity. The deployed VMware software creates an appropriately configured entity, called a Horizon Cloud node, which pairs with the cloud service to create your desktops-as-a-service environment Horizon CloudHorizon Cloud Horizon CloudA control plane hosted in the cloud by VMware for the central orchestration and management of virtual desktops and applications. Horizon Cloud node Horizon CloudVMware software deployed into a supported capacity environment, such as: Microsoft Azure cloud Microsoft Azure cloud Supported optimized HCI (hyperconverged infrastructure) hardware, such as vSAN Ready Nodes or Dell EMC VxRail appliances. Supported optimized HCI (hyperconverged infrastructure) hardware, such as vSAN Ready Nodes or Dell EMC VxRail appliances. vSAN Ready NodesAlong with access to the Horizon Cloud Administration Console, the service includes the software necessary to perform the following tasks. Horizon CloudPair the deployed node with the cloud control plane. Pair the deployed node with the cloud control plane. Deliver virtual desktops and applications. Deliver virtual desktops and applications. After the node is deployed, you use Horizon Cloud Administration Console to create desktops and applications and entitle them to your end users. Horizon CloudHorizon Cloud Control PlaneHorizon CloudVMware hosts the Horizon Cloud control plane in the cloud. This cloud service enables the central orchestration and management of virtual desktops, remote desktop sessions, and remote applications for your users. The cloud service also manages your nodes. The nodes are physically located in your provided capacity environments. When you log in to the cloud service, you can see all of your nodes and perform management activities across them, regardless of where they are physically located. Horizon CloudVMware is responsible for hosting the service and providing feature updates and enhancements for a software-as-a-service experience. The cloud control plane also hosts a common management user interface called the Horizon Cloud Administration Console, or Administration Console for short. The Administration Console runs in industry-standard browsers. It provides IT administrators with a single location for management tasks involving user assignments and the virtual desktops, remote desktop sessions, and applications. The Administration Console is accessible from anywhere at any time, providing maximum flexibility. Horizon CloudImportant:The Administration Console reflects what is available at the current service level. However, when you have nodes that are not yet upgraded to the currently released level, the Administration Console does not display those features that depend on the latest node software level. Also, in a particular release, Horizon Cloud might include separately licensed features. The Administration Console reflects the elements related to such features when your license includes use of such features. Horizon CloudHorizon Cloud Node Deployed in Microsoft AzureHorizon CloudYou connect your Microsoft Azure subscription to Horizon Cloud to manage and deliver VDI desktops and RDSH-served desktops and applications. Setting up the environment involves deploying the node into your Microsoft Azure capacity. Horizon CloudA Horizon Cloud node, or node for short, has a physical regional location in a Microsoft Azure cloud. In the node deployment wizard, you select where to place the node, according to the regions available for your particular Microsoft Azure subscription. You also select an existing virtual network (vnet) that the node will use in your selected region. Horizon CloudNote:Even though you preconfigure your Microsoft Azure environment with that vnet, you do not create the subnets up front. The node deployer creates the subnets as it deploys the node software into your environment. You do have to know what IP address spaces you want to use for the node's subnets before you start the deployment wizard. Important:A node is not a tenant. A node does not adhere to the exact same set of characteristics that defines a tenant and which you would expect from a tenant. For example, even though a tenant would have a one-to-one mapping to an Active Directory domain and be isolated from other tenants, all of the Horizon Cloud nodes in Microsoft Azure that are deployed using the same Horizon Cloud customer account record need to be able to reach the same Active Directory servers and the DNS configuration needs to resolve all of those Active Directory domains. Horizon CloudHorizon CloudTo do multi-tenancy, you would set up multiple Horizon Cloud customer account records. The Horizon Cloud customer account record, which is created when you registered with VMware to use the Horizon Cloud Service and is associated with your My VMware credentials, is more like a tenant. A Horizon Cloud customer account record is isolated from other Horizon Cloud customer account records. A single customer account record maps to multiple nodes, and when someone uses any of the account credentials associated with that customer account record to log in to the Administration Console, the console reflects all of the nodes that are mapped to that customer account record. Horizon CloudHorizon CloudHorizon CloudHorizon CloudThe node deployment process automatically creates a set of resource groups in your Microsoft Azure capacity. Resource groups are used to organize the assets that the environment needs and creates, such as: Virtual subnets Virtual subnets VMs for the node manager instance VMs for the node manager instance VMs for the Unified Access Gateway and load balancer instances VMs for the Unified Access Gateway and load balancer instances VMs for the master RDS-enabled server images VMs for the master RDS-enabled server images VMs for the master VDI desktop images VMs for the master VDI desktop images VMs for the assignable (published) images that are made from the master images VMs for the assignable (published) images that are made from the master images VMs for the RDSH farms that provide the RDSH desktops and remote applications VMs for the RDSH farms that provide the RDSH desktops and remote applications VMs for the VDI desktops VMs for the VDI desktops Additional assets that the VMs and the environment require for supported operations, such as network interfaces, IP addresses, disks, and various items along those lines. Additional assets that the VMs and the environment require for supported operations, such as network interfaces, IP addresses, disks, and various items along those lines. All of the resource groups created by Horizon Cloud in your Microsoft Azure environment are named using the prefix vmw-hcs. Horizon Cloudvmw-hcsCaution:Do not manually modify the node-related resources using the Microsoft Azure portal except for: Manual creation of master image. Manual creation of master image. Modifying farm and VDI desktop assignment network security groups as need to configure ports for your business circumstances. Modifying farm and VDI desktop assignment network security groups as need to configure ports for your business circumstances. Horizon Cloud automatically configures the node-related resources to ensure the node operates as designed. Do not manually change settings for the resources that are automatically created and deployed during workflows, assigned IP addresses or names, and so on. Do not manually power off VM instances directly using the Microsoft Azure portal. If you change the generated settings or manually power off VMs, unpredictable results can occur. Figure 1. Subscriptions and Number of NodesBe mindful about the number of nodes you deploy into a single subscription, especially if you plan to have each node running at a large scale. Even though multiple nodes can be deployed into a single Microsoft Azure subscription, whether all into one region or spread across multiple regions, Microsoft Azure imposes certain limits within a single subscription. Because of those Microsoft Azure limits, deployment of a large number of nodes into a single subscription increases the likelihood of hitting those limits. Numerous variables, and combinations of those variables, are involved in reaching those limits, such as the number of nodes, the number of farms and assignments within each node, the number of servers within each node, the number of desktops within each assignment, and so on. If you plan to have nodes running at a large scale, consider adopting the approach of having multiple subscriptions with those multiple subscriptions under one Microsoft Azure account. Microsoft Azure customers use this approach, and often prefer it, because it provides some benefits for ongoing management of the subscriptions. Using this approach, you would deploy a single node per subscription, roll up those subscriptions in a single "master" account, and avoid the chances of hitting the Microsoft Azure limits that are imposed on a single subscription. Microsoft Azure Terminology and ReferencesThe VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure product documentation uses the applicable Microsoft Azure terminology as appropriate in the descriptions and task steps of the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure workflows. If the Microsoft Azure terminology is unfamiliar to you, you can use the following applicable references in the Microsoft Azure product documentation to learn more. VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureVMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureNote:All capitalization and spelling in the citations below follow the same capitalization and spelling found in the linked-to articles in the Microsoft Azure documentation itself. Useful Microsoft Azure References Useful Microsoft Azure References DescriptionDescriptionMicrosoft Azure glossary: A dictionary of cloud terminology on the Azure platform Microsoft Azure glossary: A dictionary of cloud terminology on the Azure platform Microsoft Azure glossary: A dictionary of cloud terminology on the Azure platformUse this glossary to learn the meaning of terms as used in the Microsoft Azure cloud context, for terms such as load balancer, region, resource group, subscription, virtual machine, and virtual network (vnet). Note: The Microsoft Azure glossary does not include the term service principal because the service principal is a resource automatically created in Microsoft Azure when an application registration is created in Microsoft Azure. The reason why you create an application registration in your Microsoft Azure subscription is because that is the way you authorize Horizon Cloud as an application to use your Microsoft Azure capacity. The application registration and its companion service principal enable the Horizon Cloud cloud service acting as an application to access resources in your Microsoft Azure subscription. Use the next reference below to learn about applications and service principals that can access resources in Microsoft Azure. Use this glossary to learn the meaning of terms as used in the Microsoft Azure cloud context, for terms such as load balancer, region, resource group, subscription, virtual machine, and virtual network (vnet). Note:The Microsoft Azure glossary does not include the term service principal because the service principal is a resource automatically created in Microsoft Azure when an application registration is created in Microsoft Azure. The reason why you create an application registration in your Microsoft Azure subscription is because that is the way you authorize Horizon Cloud as an application to use your Microsoft Azure capacity. The application registration and its companion service principal enable the Horizon Cloud cloud service acting as an application to access resources in your Microsoft Azure subscription. Use the next reference below to learn about applications and service principals that can access resources in Microsoft Azure. Horizon Cloudas an applicationHorizon CloudUse portal to create an Azure Active Directory application and service principal that can access resourcesUse portal to create an Azure Active Directory application and service principal that can access resourcesUse portal to create an Azure Active Directory application and service principal that can access resourcesUse this article to learn about the relationship between an application and a service principal in a Microsoft Azure cloud. Use this article to learn about the relationship between an application and a service principal in a Microsoft Azure cloud. Azure Resource Manager overview Azure Resource Manager overview Azure Resource Manager overviewUse this article to learn about the relationships between resources, resource groups, and the Resource Manager in Microsoft Azure. Use this article to learn about the relationships between resources, resource groups, and the Resource Manager in Microsoft Azure. Azure VNet Azure VNet Azure VNetUse this article to learn about the Azure Virtual Network (VNet) service in Microsoft Azure. See also Azure Virtual Network FAQs. Use this article to learn about the Azure Virtual Network (VNet) service in Microsoft Azure. See also Azure Virtual Network FAQs. Azure Virtual Network FAQsAzure VNet Peering Azure VNet Peering Azure VNet PeeringUse this article to learn about virtual network peering in Microsoft Azure. Use this article to learn about virtual network peering in Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute Overview Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute Overview Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute OverviewUse this article to learn about Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute and how you can use it to establish connections between your on-premises networks, Microsoft Azure, and your Horizon Cloud nodes. Use this article to learn about Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute and how you can use it to establish connections between your on-premises networks, Microsoft Azure, and your Horizon Cloud nodes. Horizon CloudAbout VPN Gateway Planning and design for VPN Gateway Create a Site-To-Site connection in the Azure portal About VPN Gateway About VPN GatewayPlanning and design for VPN Gateway Planning and design for VPN GatewayCreate a Site-To-Site connection in the Azure portal Create a Site-To-Site connection in the Azure portalUse these articles to learn about how to configure VPNs in Microsoft Azure. Use these articles to learn about how to configure VPNs in Microsoft Azure. VMware, Inc x 