VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineYou can delete assignments if they are no longer needed. From the Assignments page, Delete is under the ... menu (... > Delete). DeleteDeleteAbout this taskThe specific steps for deleting an assignment vary depending on the assignment type. Assignment Type Assignment Type Details Details Floating VDI desktop assignment Floating VDI desktop assignment One of the following methods: Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. When you confirm the deletion, the system starts deleting the desktop VMs. Edit the assignment to set the Min Desktops and Max Desktops values to zero (0). As a result, the system's power management feature deletes all of the assignment's desktop VMs. Then select the assignment and click ... > Delete. You can use the Activity page to monitor the deletion process. As the system deletes the desktop VMs, it marks all of the VMs as not brokerable, which prevents new end user connections during the deletion process. For any desktop VMs that have existing end user connections, the Administration Console will display a warning to you that those sessions will be terminated. The connected end users will not get a warning in their desktops. Note: Do not manually delete desktop VMs in a floating VDI desktop assignment from the assignments Desktops tab. When you manually delete a desktop VM from a floating VDI desktop assignment, the system's power management feature automatically creates a new desktop VM to take the place of the deleted one. To remove desktop VMs from a floating VDI desktop assignment, always edit the Min Desktops and Max Desktops values. One of the following methods: Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. When you confirm the deletion, the system starts deleting the desktop VMs. Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. When you confirm the deletion, the system starts deleting the desktop VMs. DeleteEdit the assignment to set the Min Desktops and Max Desktops values to zero (0). As a result, the system's power management feature deletes all of the assignment's desktop VMs. Then select the assignment and click ... > Delete. Edit the assignment to set the Min Desktops and Max Desktops values to zero (0). As a result, the system's power management feature deletes all of the assignment's desktop VMs. Then select the assignment and click ... > Delete. Min DesktopsMax DesktopsDeleteYou can use the Activity page to monitor the deletion process. As the system deletes the desktop VMs, it marks all of the VMs as not brokerable, which prevents new end user connections during the deletion process. For any desktop VMs that have existing end user connections, the Administration Console will display a warning to you that those sessions will be terminated. The connected end users will not get a warning in their desktops. Note:Do not manually delete desktop VMs in a floating VDI desktop assignment from the assignments Desktops tab. When you manually delete a desktop VM from a floating VDI desktop assignment, the system's power management feature automatically creates a new desktop VM to take the place of the deleted one. To remove desktop VMs from a floating VDI desktop assignment, always edit the Min Desktops and Max Desktops values. Min DesktopsMax DesktopsDedicated VDI desktop assignment Dedicated VDI desktop assignment To delete a dedicated VDI desktop assignment: Take the assignment offline, using the Take Offline button on the Assignments page. Taking the assignment offline prevents the system's power management feature from attempting to automatically create new desktop VMs as you delete instances during the next step. Delete all of the assignment's desktop VMs. Navigate into the assignment's details page, click the Desktops tab, select all of the desktop VMs and click ... > Delete. Use the Activity page to monitor the deletion process and determine when all of the desktop VMs are deleted and all tasks are finished. Do not rely on the Assignments page displaying the assignment's size as zero, because even though all of the desktop VMs might be zero, additional tasks to fully update the system's records might still be running. Those running tasks will prevent you from deleting the assignment from the Assignments page until all of those tasks are done. Deleting all of the desktops can take a long time depending on how many there are. When all of the desktop VMs are deleted, then you can delete the assignment from the Assignments page by selecting it and clicking ... > Delete. To delete a dedicated VDI desktop assignment: Take the assignment offline, using the Take Offline button on the Assignments page. Taking the assignment offline prevents the system's power management feature from attempting to automatically create new desktop VMs as you delete instances during the next step. Take the assignment offline, using the Take Offline button on the Assignments page. Taking the assignment offline prevents the system's power management feature from attempting to automatically create new desktop VMs as you delete instances during the next step. Take OfflineDelete all of the assignment's desktop VMs. Navigate into the assignment's details page, click the Desktops tab, select all of the desktop VMs and click ... > Delete. Delete all of the assignment's desktop VMs. Navigate into the assignment's details page, click the Desktops tab, select all of the desktop VMs and click ... > Delete. DeleteUse the Activity page to monitor the deletion process and determine when all of the desktop VMs are deleted and all tasks are finished. Do not rely on the Assignments page displaying the assignment's size as zero, because even though all of the desktop VMs might be zero, additional tasks to fully update the system's records might still be running. Those running tasks will prevent you from deleting the assignment from the Assignments page until all of those tasks are done. Deleting all of the desktops can take a long time depending on how many there are. Use the Activity page to monitor the deletion process and determine when all of the desktop VMs are deleted and all tasks are finished. Do not rely on the Assignments page displaying the assignment's size as zero, because even though all of the desktop VMs might be zero, additional tasks to fully update the system's records might still be running. Those running tasks will prevent you from deleting the assignment from the Assignments page until all of those tasks are done. Deleting all of the desktops can take a long time depending on how many there are. When all of the desktop VMs are deleted, then you can delete the assignment from the Assignments page by selecting it and clicking ... > Delete. When all of the desktop VMs are deleted, then you can delete the assignment from the Assignments page by selecting it and clicking ... > Delete. DeleteSession desktop assignment Session desktop assignment Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. Because session desktop assignments are for entitling users to connect to the RDSH servers in a farm, no VMs are actually deleted when you delete this assignment type. The assignment record is removed from the system. Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. Because session desktop assignments are for entitling users to connect to the RDSH servers in a farm, no VMs are actually deleted when you delete this assignment type. The assignment record is removed from the system. DeleteApplication assignment Application assignment Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. DeleteURL redirection customization assignment URL redirection customization assignment Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. Select the assignment on the Assignments page and click ... > Delete. DeleteParent topic:Managing AssignmentsVMware, Inc x 