VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineUse the Administration Console's role-based access control to determine which administrative privileges are granted to which of your Active Directory user accounts. When logging in to the Administration Console, the second login screen uses the Active Directory account credentials. The system provides predefined roles that you can assign to your Active Directory groups. About this taskThese roles and their associated rights determine which management actions a user can perform using the Administration Console. The visibility of the Administration Console's features and elements is controlled by the role assigned to the person's Active Directory account. For example, a person in an Active Directory group that is assigned the Help Desk Read Only Administrator role can navigate to the user cards for end users and view the information, but not perform operations on the desktops. A person in an Active Directory group that is assigned the Help Desk Administrator role can navigate to the user cards and perform troubleshooting operations as well as view the information. You must assign a role to your organization's appropriate Active Directory groups before the users in that group can log in to the Administration Console's second login screen and access management actions. Help Desk Read Only AdministratorHelp Desk AdministratorImportant:These Horizon Cloud roles can be assigned to groups only. The Administration Console does not provide a way to choose individual Active Directory user accounts for each role. Horizon CloudThis point is critical for the domain-join account. If the domain-join account that you registered for your initial node is not already in one of your Active Directory groups, create an Active Directory group for that account so that you can ensure the Super Administrator role can be assigned to that domain-join account. That domain-join account must be given the Super Administrator role. The following predefined roles are provided by default. The predefined roles cannot be modified. Table 1. Horizon Cloud Role-Based Access Control GroupsHorizon CloudRole Role Description Description Super Administrator Super Administrator A mandatory role that you must assign to at least one group in your Active Directory domain and optionally to others. This role grants all the permissions to perform management actions in the Administration Console. Important: Ensure that the domain-join account that you specified when registering the Active Directory domain with the first node is in one of the groups given the Super Administrator role. For the end-to-end success of operations involving images and domain join operations, that domain-join account must be granted this Super Administrator role. A mandatory role that you must assign to at least one group in your Active Directory domain and optionally to others. This role grants all the permissions to perform management actions in the Administration Console. Important:Ensure that the domain-join account that you specified when registering the Active Directory domain with the first node is in one of the groups given the Super Administrator role. For the end-to-end success of operations involving images and domain join operations, that domain-join account must be granted this Super Administrator role. Help Desk Administrator Help Desk Administrator A role that you can optionally assign to one or more groups. The purpose of this role is to provide access to the Administration Console so that your Active Directory groups with this role can work with the user card features to: See the status of end user sessions. Perform troubleshooting operations on the sessions. A role that you can optionally assign to one or more groups. The purpose of this role is to provide access to the Administration Console so that your Active Directory groups with this role can work with the user card features to: See the status of end user sessions. See the status of end user sessions. Perform troubleshooting operations on the sessions. Perform troubleshooting operations on the sessions. Help Desk Read Only Administrator Help Desk Read Only Administrator A role that you can optionally assign to one of more groups. The purpose of this role is to provide access to the Administration Console so that your Active Directory groups with this role can work with the user card features to see the status of end user sessions. A role that you can optionally assign to one of more groups. The purpose of this role is to provide access to the Administration Console so that your Active Directory groups with this role can work with the user card features to see the status of end user sessions. Demo Administrator Demo Administrator A read-only role that you can optionally assign to one or more groups. Demo administrators can view the settings and select options to see additional choices in the console, but the selections do not change the configuration settings. A read-only role that you can optionally assign to one or more groups. Demo administrators can view the settings and select options to see additional choices in the console, but the selections do not change the configuration settings. PrerequisitesCaution:Prior to assigning roles to your existing Active Directory groups, review the user account membership in the Active Directory groups to ensure a user account receives only one of these Horizon Cloud roles. Create specific Active Directory groups if needed. Because these roles are assigned at the level of the Active Directory group, some unexpected results can occur if a user's Active Directory account belongs to two Active Directory groups and each group is assigned a different role. The Administration Console features are visible according to this precedence order: Horizon CloudSuper Administrator Super Administrator Super AdministratorHelp Desk Administrator Help Desk Administrator Help Desk AdministratorDemo Administrator Demo Administrator Demo AdministratorHelp Desk Read Only Administrator Help Desk Read Only Administrator Help Desk Read Only AdministratorAs a result of this precedence order, if a user's Active Directory account belongs to both Active Directory groups ADGroup1 and ADGroup2, and you assign the Super Administrator role to ADGroup1 and assign the Help Desk Read Only Administrator role to ADGroup2, the Administration Console will display all of the features according to the Super Administrator role, instead of the subset of features for the other role, because the Super Administrator role takes precedence. Super AdministratorHelp Desk Read Only AdministratorSuper AdministratorSuper AdministratorProcedureIn the Administration Console, navigate to Settings > Roles & Permissions. In the Administration Console, navigate to Settings > Roles & Permissions. Settings > Roles & PermissionsSettingsRoles & PermissionsSelect one of the predefined roles and click Edit. Select one of the predefined roles and click Edit. EditUse the search box to search for and select an Active Directory group. You must type at least three characters into the search box to have results appear. The group is added to the set of selected groups. Use the search box to search for and select an Active Directory group. You must type at least three characters into the search box to have results appear. The group is added to the set of selected groups. Click Save. Click Save. SaveWhat to do nextIf you want to give the same users access for the Administration Console's first login screen, add their My VMware accounts using the General Settings page. See Give Administrative Access to People in Your Organization for information. My VMwareGive Administrative Access to People in Your OrganizationThe Administration Console's first login screen uses My VMware accounts, which are associated with the Horizon Cloud roles using the General Settings page. The second login screen uses Active Directory credentials, which are associated with the Horizon Cloud roles using this Roles & Permissions page. My VMwareHorizon CloudHorizon CloudParent topic:Getting Started Using Your Horizon Cloud EnvironmentVMware, Inc x 