VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineUse the Horizon Cloud Administration Console's user card feature as a dashboard to work with a specific user's assigned resources, such as that user's assignments. Horizon CloudYou use the Administration Console's search feature to display the card for a specific user. See Using the Console's Search Feature for how to search for a user. When you click on a user in the search results, that user's card is displayed. Using the Console's Search FeatureUse the tabs at the top of the user card to work with those items in your environment that are related to that user. User Card Tabs User Card Tabs Description Description Assignments Assignments AssignmentsLists the user's assignments. Note: URL redirection customization assignments are not listed in the user card. Lists the user's assignments. Note:URL redirection customization assignments are not listed in the user card. Sessions Sessions SessionsLists the logged-in sessions the user has. Click on a session to open its dashboard. From a session's dashboard, you can monitor the user session for troubleshooting. See Working with the Session Dashboard. Lists the logged-in sessions the user has. Click on a session to open its dashboard. From a session's dashboard, you can monitor the user session for troubleshooting. See Working with the Session Dashboard. Working with the Session DashboardDesktops Desktops DesktopsLists the user's: Active sessions to VDI floating desktops Active sessions to RDSH session desktops VDI dedicated desktops that have been assigned to this user, even when the user does not have an active session to that desktop. Note: The system assigns a VDI dedicated desktop to a user in one of two ways: You explicitly assign that specific dedicated desktop to this particular user, using the Assign action in the VDi dedicated desktop assignment's page The user claims the desktop from the set that is defined by the VDI dedicated desktop assignment to which that user is entitled. You can entitle a user to a VDI dedicated desktop assignment without explicitly assigning a specific dedicated desktop to that user. You entitle users using the assignment's Users/Groups area. Then when an entitled user launches a desktop from the set of desktops in that assignment for the first time, that user has claimed that VDI dedicated desktop, and the system permanently assigns that VDI dedicated desktop to that user. On this tab, you can use the standard virtual machine (VM) action buttons to perform actions on the desktops' underlying virtual machines. Lists the user's: Active sessions to VDI floating desktops Active sessions to VDI floating desktops Active sessions to RDSH session desktops Active sessions to RDSH session desktops VDI dedicated desktops that have been assigned to this user, even when the user does not have an active session to that desktop. VDI dedicated desktops that have been assigned to this user, even when the user does not have an active session to that desktop. Note:The system assigns a VDI dedicated desktop to a user in one of two ways: You explicitly assign that specific dedicated desktop to this particular user, using the Assign action in the VDi dedicated desktop assignment's page You explicitly assign that specific dedicated desktop to this particular user, using the Assign action in the VDi dedicated desktop assignment's page AssignThe user claims the desktop from the set that is defined by the VDI dedicated desktop assignment to which that user is entitled. You can entitle a user to a VDI dedicated desktop assignment without explicitly assigning a specific dedicated desktop to that user. You entitle users using the assignment's Users/Groups area. Then when an entitled user launches a desktop from the set of desktops in that assignment for the first time, that user has claimed that VDI dedicated desktop, and the system permanently assigns that VDI dedicated desktop to that user. The user claims the desktop from the set that is defined by the VDI dedicated desktop assignment to which that user is entitled. You can entitle a user to a VDI dedicated desktop assignment without explicitly assigning a specific dedicated desktop to that user. You entitle users using the assignment's Users/Groups area. Then when an entitled user launches a desktop from the set of desktops in that assignment for the first time, that user has claimed that VDI dedicated desktop, and the system permanently assigns that VDI dedicated desktop to that user. Users/GroupsOn this tab, you can use the standard virtual machine (VM) action buttons to perform actions on the desktops' underlying virtual machines. Applications Applications ApplicationsLists the user's entitled remote applications. Lists the user's entitled remote applications. Activity Activity ActivityDisplays the user's activity for selected time periods. Displays the user's activity for selected time periods. Working with the Session DashboardWhen you click on one of the active sessions listed on the user card's Sessions tab, the dashboard for that session is displayed. This dashboard has three tabs: Details, Processes, and Applications. The Details tab provides data about various session-related details that can be used to monitor the end user's session for troubleshooting purposes, such as CPU usage, memory usage, network latency, disk performance, and so on. Scroll through the dashboard and use the Less and More links to change how many details are displayed on the screen. LessMoreThe following screenshot shows an example of the types of data and actions that are available in the session dashboard. The Details tab provides actions that super administrators and help desk administrators can take to troubleshoot issues in the session. Action Action Description Description Send Message Send Message Send MessageSend a message to the logged-in user. When sent, the message appears on the user's screen. Send a message to the logged-in user. When sent, the message appears on the user's screen. Restart Restart RestartRestart the session. Restart the session. Disconnect Disconnect DisconnectDisconnect the session. Disconnect the session. More > Logoff More > Logoff More > LogoffMoreLogoffLog the user off the session. Log the user off the session. More > Reset More > Reset More > ResetMoreResetReset the session. Reset the session. The Processes tab lists the processes that are running in the session and provides an End Process button to end a troublesome process. End ProcessThe Applications tab gives a list of the applications that the end user is currently running in the session. Parent topic:Help Desk Features in Your Horizon Cloud EnvironmentVMware, Inc x 