VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineBy integrating your node with an on-premises or cloud-hosted VMware Identity Manager™ environment, you give your VMware Identity Manager™ users the ability to access their entitled desktops and applications using Workspace ONE. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™Workspace ONEAbout this taskVMware Identity Manager™ is an Identity as a Service (IDaaS) offering that provides application provisioning, a self-service catalog, conditional access controls, and single sign-on (SSO) for SaaS, web, cloud, and native mobile applications. VMware Identity Manager™ is available both as an on-premises product and as a service hosted by VMware. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™For an overview of this integration from the perspective of the VMware Identity Manager™ environment, see the Providing Access to Horizon Cloud overview. You configure desktops and remote application assignments for your users and groups in the Horizon Cloud Administration Console as usual. After you complete the steps to integrate your node with your VMware Identity Manager™ environment, you sync the node's assignment information to the VMware Identity Manager™ service. Then you can see the desktops and applications in the VMware Identity Manager™ administration console and your end users can access their desktops from Workspace ONE. You can set up a regular sync schedule to sync the assignment information from Horizon Cloud to your VMware Identity Manager™ environment. VMware Identity Manager™Providing Access to Horizon CloudHorizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™Workspace ONEHorizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™The following list is a high-level summary of the end-to-end steps to enable your end users to access their entitled desktops and applications using the Workspace ONE portal. Workspace ONEObtain a VMware Identity Manager™ environment, either by deploying the on-premises version or by subscribing to the cloud-hosted version. Obtain a VMware Identity Manager™ environment, either by deploying the on-premises version or by subscribing to the cloud-hosted version. VMware Identity Manager™Deploy VMware Identity Manager™ according to the VMware Identity Manager™ guidelines for the deployment model you are using. If you are using the cloud-hosted VMware Identity Manager™, you must install a VMware Identity Manager™ connector appliance on premises in your Active Directory network. For details, see the description of the deployment scenario in the VMware Identity Manager™ documentation. Important: Follow these upgrade requirements for the connector version depending on your situation: If your node is at software version earlier than 730 (numbers lower than 730) and you want to use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0 first, and then upgrade that Linux connector to 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. If your node is at software version earlier than 730, and you want to use the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0, and then upgrade that Windows connector to version 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. If your node is at software version later than 730, you would best use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1 or the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1. Deploy VMware Identity Manager™ according to the VMware Identity Manager™ guidelines for the deployment model you are using. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™If you are using the cloud-hosted VMware Identity Manager™, you must install a VMware Identity Manager™ connector appliance on premises in your Active Directory network. For details, see the description of the deployment scenario in the VMware Identity Manager™ documentation. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™description of the deployment scenarioVMware Identity Manager™Important:Follow these upgrade requirements for the connector version depending on your situation: If your node is at software version earlier than 730 (numbers lower than 730) and you want to use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0 first, and then upgrade that Linux connector to 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. If your node is at software version earlier than 730 (numbers lower than 730) and you want to use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0 first, and then upgrade that Linux connector to 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager ConnectorUpdating Your Horizon Cloud NodeIf your node is at software version earlier than 730, and you want to use the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0, and then upgrade that Windows connector to version 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. If your node is at software version earlier than 730, and you want to use the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0, and then upgrade that Windows connector to version 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager ConnectorUpdating Your Horizon Cloud NodeIf your node is at software version later than 730, you would best use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1 or the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1. If your node is at software version later than 730, you would best use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1 or the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1. Ensure that you meet the VMware Identity Manager™ prerequisites for integration, as documented in the VMware Identity Manager™ product information appropriate for your situation: VMware Identity Manager™ environment Prerequisites Cloud-hosted Prerequisites for Integration On-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1 Prerequisites for Integration Use the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Ensure that you meet the VMware Identity Manager™ prerequisites for integration, as documented in the VMware Identity Manager™ product information appropriate for your situation: VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™ environmentVMware Identity Manager™ environmentVMware Identity Manager™PrerequisitesPrerequisitesCloud-hostedCloud-hostedPrerequisites for IntegrationPrerequisites for IntegrationPrerequisites for IntegrationOn-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1On-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1Prerequisites for Integration Use the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Prerequisites for Integration Prerequisites for IntegrationUse the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Install certificates into your VMware Identity Manager™ environment that match those in your Horizon Cloud environment. When you are pointing the VMware Identity Manager™ to the node's load-balancer for the Unified Access Gateway instances, you match the certificate that was uploaded to the Unified Access Gateway instances. When you are pointing the VMware Identity Manager™ to the node itself, you match the SSL certificate that was uploaded to the node as described in Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct Connections. Install certificates into your VMware Identity Manager™ environment that match those in your Horizon Cloud environment. When you are pointing the VMware Identity Manager™ to the node's load-balancer for the Unified Access Gateway instances, you match the certificate that was uploaded to the Unified Access Gateway instances. When you are pointing the VMware Identity Manager™ to the node itself, you match the SSL certificate that was uploaded to the node as described in Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct Connections. VMware Identity Manager™Horizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct ConnectionsEnable the desktops from your Horizon Cloud environment to the VMware Identity Manager™ environment, as documented in the VMware Identity Manager™ product information appropriate for your situation: VMware Identity Manager™ environment Link to Desktop Enablement Documentation Cloud-hosted Configure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity Manager On-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1 Configure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity Manager Use the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Step 12 of that Configure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity Manager™ topic describes how to sync the entitled desktops and applications from your Horizon Cloud environment. However, do not perform that sync until after you complete the next step of configuring Horizon Cloud for VMware Identity Manager™ access. Enable the desktops from your Horizon Cloud environment to the VMware Identity Manager™ environment, as documented in the VMware Identity Manager™ product information appropriate for your situation: Horizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™ environmentVMware Identity Manager™ environmentVMware Identity Manager™Link to Desktop Enablement DocumentationLink to Desktop Enablement DocumentationCloud-hostedCloud-hostedConfigure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity ManagerConfigure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity ManagerConfigure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity ManagerOn-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1On-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1Configure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity Manager Use the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Configure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity Manager Configure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity ManagerUse the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Step 12 of that Configure Horizon Cloud Tenant in VMware Identity Manager™ topic describes how to sync the entitled desktops and applications from your Horizon Cloud environment. However, do not perform that sync until after you complete the next step of configuring Horizon Cloud for VMware Identity Manager™ access. VMware Identity Manager™Horizon CloudHorizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™Configure Horizon Cloud for VMware Identity Manager™ access. See Configure a Horizon Cloud Node for VMware Identity Manager™. Configure Horizon Cloud for VMware Identity Manager™ access. See Configure a Horizon Cloud Node for VMware Identity Manager™. Horizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™Configure a Horizon Cloud Node for VMware Identity Manager™In your VMware Identity Manager™ environment, sync the entitled desktops and applications to VMware Identity Manager™. In the VMware Identity Manager™ administration console, navigate to the Virtual Apps Configuration page for the collection you created in Step 5 and click Sync. In your VMware Identity Manager™ environment, sync the entitled desktops and applications to VMware Identity Manager™. In the VMware Identity Manager™ administration console, navigate to the Virtual Apps Configuration page for the collection you created in Step 5 and click Sync. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™SyncVerify end-user access to desktops and applications by logging in to Workspace ONE as an end user and launching a desktop and application from the catalog. See Confirm End-User Access to Desktop Assignments in VMware Identity Manager™. Verify end-user access to desktops and applications by logging in to Workspace ONE as an end user and launching a desktop and application from the catalog. See Confirm End-User Access to Desktop Assignments in VMware Identity Manager™. Workspace ONEConfirm End-User Access to Desktop Assignments in VMware Identity Manager™PrerequisitesTo complete the integration process through the step of verifying end-user access to the node-provided desktops or RDS-based remote applications using Workspace ONE, ensure that you have the following items. Workspace ONEA fully configured Horizon Cloud node, that has either Unified Access Gateway deployed or has trusted certificates uploaded to it. When you are pointing the VMware Identity Manager™ to the node itself, you need to have a SSL certificate uploaded to the node itself as described in Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct Connections. A fully configured Horizon Cloud node, that has either Unified Access Gateway deployed or has trusted certificates uploaded to it. When you are pointing the VMware Identity Manager™ to the node itself, you need to have a SSL certificate uploaded to the node itself as described in Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct Connections. Horizon CloudUnified Access GatewayVMware Identity Manager™Upload SSL Certificates to a Horizon Cloud Node for Direct ConnectionsVDI desktop assignments, session desktop assignments, or remote application assignments are configured. VDI desktop assignments, session desktop assignments, or remote application assignments are configured. Access to your organization's configured VMware Identity Manager™ environment, either an on-premises or a cloud-hosted environment. Your VMware Identity Manager™ environment must be configured with trusted certificates. If you are deploying VMware Identity Manager™ on premises, follow the deployment information available from the VMware Identity Manager™ documentation page. For the specific versions of the on-premises VMware Identity Manager™ product that are supported for use with this release, see the VMware Product Interoperability Matrixes at https://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.php. If you are using the cloud-hosted VMware Identity Manager™, you must install a VMware Identity Manager™ connector appliance on premises in your Active Directory network. Follow the steps as documented in the VMware Identity Manager™ Cloud Documentation, also available from this documentation page, and see the description of this deployment scenario and subtopics. For the connector version that is required for this release, see the VMware Product Interoperability Matrixes at https://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.php. Access to your organization's configured VMware Identity Manager™ environment, either an on-premises or a cloud-hosted environment. Your VMware Identity Manager™ environment must be configured with trusted certificates. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™If you are deploying VMware Identity Manager™ on premises, follow the deployment information available from the VMware Identity Manager™ documentation page. For the specific versions of the on-premises VMware Identity Manager™ product that are supported for use with this release, see the VMware Product Interoperability Matrixes at https://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.php. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™documentation pageVMware Identity Manager™https://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.phpIf you are using the cloud-hosted VMware Identity Manager™, you must install a VMware Identity Manager™ connector appliance on premises in your Active Directory network. Follow the steps as documented in the VMware Identity Manager™ Cloud Documentation, also available from this documentation page, and see the description of this deployment scenario and subtopics. For the connector version that is required for this release, see the VMware Product Interoperability Matrixes at https://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.php. VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™this documentation pagedescription of this deployment scenariohttps://www.vmware.com/resources/compatibility/sim/interop_matrix.phpVerify that your configured VMware Identity Manager™ environment meets the prerequisites for integration with Horizon Cloud resources, as described in the VMware Identity Manager™ documentation. VMware Identity Manager™Horizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™ environmentVMware Identity Manager™ environmentVMware Identity Manager™PrerequisitesPrerequisitesCloud-hostedCloud-hostedPrerequisites for IntegrationPrerequisites for IntegrationPrerequisites for IntegrationOn-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1On-premises version 3.1.0 and 3.2.0.1Prerequisites for Integration Use the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Prerequisites for Integration Prerequisites for IntegrationUse the blue rectangle menu in the upper right corner of the linked topic above to view either the 3.1 or 3.2 information. Important:Follow these upgrade requirements for the connector version depending on your situation: If your node is at software version earlier than 730 (numbers lower than 730) and you want to use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0 first, and then upgrade that Linux connector to 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. If your node is at software version earlier than 730 (numbers lower than 730) and you want to use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0 first, and then upgrade that Linux connector to 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager ConnectorUpdating Your Horizon Cloud NodeIf your node is at software version earlier than 730, and you want to use the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0, and then upgrade that Windows connector to version 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. If your node is at software version earlier than 730, and you want to use the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1, then first do the integration steps using version 2017.12.1.0, and then upgrade that Windows connector to version 2018.1.1.1, following the steps in Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager Connector. Then upgrade the node later, as described in Updating Your Horizon Cloud Node. Preparing to Upgrade VMware Identity Manager ConnectorUpdating Your Horizon Cloud NodeIf your node is at software version later than 730, you would best use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1 or the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1. If your node is at software version later than 730, you would best use the Linux connector version 2018.1.1.1 or the Windows connector version 2018.1.1.1. ProcedureConfigure a Horizon Cloud Node for VMware Identity Manager™To integrate a node with your VMware Identity Manager™ environment, you must configure the node with the appropriate VMware Identity Manager™ information. You use the Administration Console to configure this information. Configure a Horizon Cloud Node for VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™VMware Identity Manager™Confirm End-User Access to Desktop Assignments in VMware Identity Manager™After you integrate your Horizon Cloud environment with your VMware Identity Manager™ environment, you can confirm that end users have remote access to their virtual desktops. Confirm End-User Access to Desktop Assignments in VMware Identity Manager™Horizon CloudVMware Identity Manager™What to do nextAfter you have verified the integration is working, you can optionally enforce end users to access their desktops and applications using VMware Identity Manager™. See Enforce End-User Access Through VMware Identity Manager™. VMware Identity Manager™Enforce End-User Access Through VMware Identity Manager™VMware, Inc x 