VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineThe following steps are those for preparing a manually created master server VM, which you will use for your node's RDSH farms. You perform these steps prior to installing the Horizon Cloud agent-related software. Use the Microsoft Azure portal and connect into the new VM. Horizon CloudAbout this taskAt a high-level, the steps to prepare the master server VM prior to actually installing the agents are: Join the server VM to your Active Directory domain. The Microsoft Windows server operating system requires the server VM be on the domain before you can enable the Remote Desktop Server (RDS) role on the VM. Join the server VM to your Active Directory domain. The Microsoft Windows server operating system requires the server VM be on the domain before you can enable the Remote Desktop Server (RDS) role on the VM. In the Microsoft Azure portal, stop the VM. When you see it is completely stopped in the portal, start the VM. In the Microsoft Azure portal, stop the VM. When you see it is completely stopped in the portal, start the VM. Enable the RDS role. For this step, you must log in with a domain account. Enable the RDS role. For this step, you must log in with a domain account. Set the VM's local administrator account properties to Password never expires. By default, the created VM's local security policy has accounts set to a maximum password age of 42 days. Preventing this local administrator account's password from expiring prevents the possibility of not being able to use this local account at a later time. The Horizon Cloud image publishing workflow uses the VM's local administrator account and removes the resulting sealed VM from the domain. If you allow the account's password to expire, at a future point in time you might find you cannot log in to the VM using that account. Set the VM's local administrator account properties to Password never expires. By default, the created VM's local security policy has accounts set to a maximum password age of 42 days. Preventing this local administrator account's password from expiring prevents the possibility of not being able to use this local account at a later time. The Horizon Cloud image publishing workflow uses the VM's local administrator account and removes the resulting sealed VM from the domain. If you allow the account's password to expire, at a future point in time you might find you cannot log in to the VM using that account. Password never expiresHorizon CloudDownload the Horizon Agents Installer to the VM. Download the Horizon Agents Installer to the VM. Horizon Agents InstallerDownload the DaaS SSL bootstrap file to the VM. Download the DaaS SSL bootstrap file to the VM. PrerequisitesComplete the steps in Create the Virtual Machine Manually in Your Node in Microsoft Azure. If you are using a base VM that you created in Microsoft Azure outside of those documented steps, ensure your base VM meets the criteria as listed in Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Create the Virtual Machine Manually in Your Node in Microsoft AzureManually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureCaution:Ensure that the VM was created with Storage - Use managed disk set to Yes and with the correct virtual network and subnet, as described in Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Otherwise, this VM will be unusable in Horizon Cloud even after you configure it and install the agent-related components, and then you will have to recreate it from scratch. Storage - Use managed diskYesManually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureHorizon CloudTo verify the VM meets that criteria before you spend time configuring it, log in to the Horizon Cloud Administration Console and navigate to the Inventory VMs page to see if the VM is listed. If it is listed, then the VM meets the above criteria and you can safely proceed with further configuration. Horizon CloudProcedureIn the portal's dashboard, click the icon for the VM to open its overview page. In the portal's dashboard, click the icon for the VM to open its overview page. Click Connect. Depending on your browser settings, your browser downloads an RDP file or prompts you to save or run it. Click Connect. ConnectDepending on your browser settings, your browser downloads an RDP file or prompts you to save or run it. Use that RDP file to open a remote desktop connection to the VM. Use the default user name and password that you specified in the VM creation wizard. Include a backslash (\) in front of the user name to log in without a domain. Use that RDP file to open a remote desktop connection to the VM. Click Yes to the certificate warning in the Remote Desktop Connection screen. Because this is the first login to the operating system, Windows displays a Networks prompt question on the right hand side. The prompt asks about automatically finding PCs, devices, and other items on the network. The Server Manager automatically launches to its first-time configuration wizard. Click Yes to the certificate warning in the Remote Desktop Connection screen. YesBecause this is the first login to the operating system, Windows displays a Networks prompt question on the right hand side. The prompt asks about automatically finding PCs, devices, and other items on the network. The Server Manager automatically launches to its first-time configuration wizard. Dismiss the Networks prompt on the right hand side of the screen by clicking No. Dismiss the Networks prompt on the right hand side of the screen by clicking No. NoJoin the VM to the Active Directory (AD) domain that is registered with this node. Important: Joining the VM to the domain is mandatory. The VM must be joined to the domain before you can perform the next step of enabling the RDS role in the VM. Open the System Properties window. In a Microsoft Windows server operating system, you can open the System Properties window from the Server Manager window's Local Server screen by clicking Workgroup. In the System Properties window, click Change to change the domain. In the Computer Name/Domain Changes window, select the Domain radio button and enter the AD domain name that matches the one registered to the Horizon Cloud. When prompted, enter the name and password of an account with permission to join that domain and click OK. In the prompt, click Restart Later. In the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop to power off the VM. When the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. Join the VM to the Active Directory (AD) domain that is registered with this node. Important:Joining the VM to the domain is mandatory. The VM must be joined to the domain before you can perform the next step of enabling the RDS role in the VM. Open the System Properties window. In a Microsoft Windows server operating system, you can open the System Properties window from the Server Manager window's Local Server screen by clicking Workgroup. Open the System Properties window. WorkgroupIn the System Properties window, click Change to change the domain. In the System Properties window, click Change to change the domain. ChangeIn the Computer Name/Domain Changes window, select the Domain radio button and enter the AD domain name that matches the one registered to the Horizon Cloud. In the Computer Name/Domain Changes window, select the Domain radio button and enter the AD domain name that matches the one registered to the Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudWhen prompted, enter the name and password of an account with permission to join that domain and click OK. When prompted, enter the name and password of an account with permission to join that domain and click OK. OKIn the prompt, click Restart Later. In the prompt, click Restart Later. Restart LaterIn the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop to power off the VM. In the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop to power off the VM. StopWhen the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. When the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. StartEnable the RDS role in the VM using the following steps. Enabling the RDS role allows using this server VM in RDSH farms for providing session-based desktops and remote applications. In Microsoft Azure portal, connect to the powered-on, domain-joined VM as described in Step 2. Log in using an AD domain account. In the Server Manager dashboard, click Add roles and features. Go through the wizard, selecting Role-based or feature-based installation. On the Server Selection step, retain the defaults and click Next. On the Server Roles step, select Remote Desktop Services and click Next. On the Features step, retain the defaults and click Next. Click to the Role Services step and select Remote Desktop Session Host. Optionally keep the setting for the prompt about Remote Desktop Licensing Diagnoser Tools. Start the process. The wizard starts installing the RDS role. When the screen indicates a restart is pending. close the wizard and close your RDP session. In the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop on the VM to power it off completely. When the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. Reconnect to the powered-on VM as described previously. When the wizard displays the Completion step and you see the success messages, click Close to close the wizard. Enable the RDS role in the VM using the following steps. Enabling the RDS role allows using this server VM in RDSH farms for providing session-based desktops and remote applications. In Microsoft Azure portal, connect to the powered-on, domain-joined VM as described in Step 2. In Microsoft Azure portal, connect to the powered-on, domain-joined VM as described in Step 2. Step 2Log in using an AD domain account. Log in using an AD domain account. In the Server Manager dashboard, click Add roles and features. In the Server Manager dashboard, click Add roles and features. Add roles and featuresGo through the wizard, selecting Role-based or feature-based installation. Go through the wizard, selecting Role-based or feature-based installation. Role-based or feature-based installationOn the Server Selection step, retain the defaults and click Next. On the Server Selection step, retain the defaults and click Next. Server SelectionNextOn the Server Roles step, select Remote Desktop Services and click Next. On the Server Roles step, select Remote Desktop Services and click Next. Server RolesRemote Desktop ServicesNextOn the Features step, retain the defaults and click Next. On the Features step, retain the defaults and click Next. FeaturesNextClick to the Role Services step and select Remote Desktop Session Host. Click to the Role Services step and select Remote Desktop Session Host. Role ServicesRemote Desktop Session HostOptionally keep the setting for the prompt about Remote Desktop Licensing Diagnoser Tools. Optionally keep the setting for the prompt about Remote Desktop Licensing Diagnoser Tools. Start the process. The wizard starts installing the RDS role. When the screen indicates a restart is pending. close the wizard and close your RDP session. Start the process. The wizard starts installing the RDS role. When the screen indicates a restart is pending. close the wizard and close your RDP session. In the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop on the VM to power it off completely. In the Microsoft Azure portal, click Stop on the VM to power it off completely. StopWhen the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. When the portal reflects the VM is completely stopped, click Start to power it on again. StartReconnect to the powered-on VM as described previously. When the wizard displays the Completion step and you see the success messages, click Close to close the wizard. Reconnect to the powered-on VM as described previously. When the wizard displays the Completion step and you see the success messages, click Close to close the wizard. CloseIn the VM, set the VM's local administrator account password to Password never expires. In the VM, set the VM's local administrator account password to Password never expires. Password never expiresTo temporarily enable Internet Explorer to download the Horizon Agents Installer software, turn off the IE Enhanced Security Configuration for both administrators and users. To temporarily enable Internet Explorer to download the Horizon Agents Installer software, turn off the IE Enhanced Security Configuration for both administrators and users. Horizon Agents InstallerIE Enhanced Security ConfigurationDownload the Horizon Agent Installer software to the VM from www.vmware.com by logging in using your My VMware account and navigating to the product's software downloads page. One method to download the installer is to point the VM's Internet Explorer browser to the My VMware location in vmware.com. Log in using your My VMware account. Navigate to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure downloads page by clicking View & Download Products, navigating to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service download components page, and selecting Go to Downloads for the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure choice. Download the Horizon Agent Installer software to the VM from www.vmware.com by logging in using your My VMware account and navigating to the product's software downloads page. Horizon Agent Installerwww.vmware.comMy VMwareOne method to download the installer is to point the VM's Internet Explorer browser to the My VMware location in vmware.com. Log in using your My VMware account. Navigate to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure downloads page by clicking View & Download Products, navigating to the VMware Horizon Cloud Service download components page, and selecting Go to Downloads for the VMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure choice. My VMwareMy VMwareVMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureView & Download ProductsGo to DownloadsVMware Horizon Cloud Service on Microsoft AzureDownload the DaaS SSL bootstrap file from Horizon Cloud. This file is used in the bootstrap process that allows the VM's operating system and the Horizon Cloud node to pair with each other securely. Point the VM's browser to https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com and log in with your credentials. Click Inventory > Images. On the Images page, select ... > Download Bootstrap. In the download window, select the appropriate location, the corresponding node, and enter and re-enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Make a note of this password for future use. Click OK to save the bootstrap file to a location in the VM. The downloaded file is named image_bootstrap.7z by default. When you later configure the agent-related components in the VM, this file is used as input to the Keytool.exe utility. Download the DaaS SSL bootstrap file from Horizon Cloud. Horizon CloudThis file is used in the bootstrap process that allows the VM's operating system and the Horizon Cloud node to pair with each other securely. Horizon Cloud nodePoint the VM's browser to https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com and log in with your credentials. Point the VM's browser to https://cloud.horizon.vmware.com and log in with your credentials. https://cloud.horizon.vmware.comClick Inventory > Images. Click Inventory > Images. Inventory > ImagesInventoryImagesOn the Images page, select ... > Download Bootstrap. On the Images page, select ... > Download Bootstrap. Download BootstrapIn the download window, select the appropriate location, the corresponding node, and enter and re-enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Make a note of this password for future use. In the download window, select the appropriate location, the corresponding node, and enter and re-enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Make a note of this password for future use. Click OK to save the bootstrap file to a location in the VM. The downloaded file is named image_bootstrap.7z by default. When you later configure the agent-related components in the VM, this file is used as input to the Keytool.exe utility. Click OK to save the bootstrap file to a location in the VM. OKThe downloaded file is named image_bootstrap.7z by default. When you later configure the agent-related components in the VM, this file is used as input to the Keytool.exe utility. image_bootstrap.7zKeytool.exeWhat to do nextComplete the steps described in Install the Agent-Related Software Components in the Base Virtual Machine to install the agent-related software components. Install the Agent-Related Software Components in the Base Virtual MachineParent topic:Prepare the Manually Created Master VM Prior to Installing the AgentsVMware, Inc x 