VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineBefore you can start delivering desktops or RDS-based remote applications to your end users from your deployed node, you must create at least one assignable desktop image. Creating this assignable image is a multi-step process: a master virtual machine (VM) must be created, then customized according to your organization's needs, and then converted into an assignable desktop image. An assignable image is an image that has successfully completed the Horizon Cloud sealing process and Horizon Cloud can use it to provision RDS farms (in the case of RDS-enabled server images) or VDI desktops (in the case of non-server images). Other terms sometimes used to describe such images are sealed images and published images. Sealing an image is sometimes referred to as publishing the image or converting the image to a desktop. Horizon CloudHorizon CloudTo create the image: First you create a master virtual machine (VM) either using the automated wizard or manually: The recommended and standard way is to use the Import Desktop wizard's option to create the master VM using one of the supported VM configurations from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Using the wizard automates building the master virtual machine (VM) and configuring the VM to conform to the Horizon Cloud environment's requirements, including installing and configuring the appropriate agent-related software. From the Inventory page, start the Import Desktop wizard by clicking Import and then select the From Marketplace option. For steps, see Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Important: If your node is configured to use a proxy, you must create the base master VM using the alternative manual method, and not the automated Import Desktop method. An alternative to the standard way is to use the Microsoft Azure portal and manually perform all of the steps that the wizard automates. For information about these manual steps see Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Important: If you use this alternative method, you are responsible for ensuring the resulting master VM conforms to the configuration required by the Horizon Cloud environment. First you create a master virtual machine (VM) either using the automated wizard or manually: The recommended and standard way is to use the Import Desktop wizard's option to create the master VM using one of the supported VM configurations from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Using the wizard automates building the master virtual machine (VM) and configuring the VM to conform to the Horizon Cloud environment's requirements, including installing and configuring the appropriate agent-related software. From the Inventory page, start the Import Desktop wizard by clicking Import and then select the From Marketplace option. For steps, see Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Important: If your node is configured to use a proxy, you must create the base master VM using the alternative manual method, and not the automated Import Desktop method. The recommended and standard way is to use the Import Desktop wizard's option to create the master VM using one of the supported VM configurations from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Using the wizard automates building the master virtual machine (VM) and configuring the VM to conform to the Horizon Cloud environment's requirements, including installing and configuring the appropriate agent-related software. From the Inventory page, start the Import Desktop wizard by clicking Import and then select the From Marketplace option. For steps, see Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. Horizon CloudImportFrom MarketplaceCreate a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure MarketplaceImportant:If your node is configured to use a proxy, you must create the base master VM using the alternative manual method, and not the automated Import Desktop method. An alternative to the standard way is to use the Microsoft Azure portal and manually perform all of the steps that the wizard automates. For information about these manual steps see Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Important: If you use this alternative method, you are responsible for ensuring the resulting master VM conforms to the configuration required by the Horizon Cloud environment. An alternative to the standard way is to use the Microsoft Azure portal and manually perform all of the steps that the wizard automates. For information about these manual steps see Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft Azure. Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureImportant:If you use this alternative method, you are responsible for ensuring the resulting master VM conforms to the configuration required by the Horizon Cloud environment. Horizon CloudWhen the master VM is visible on the Imported VMs page and the page indicates the agent-related status is active, then you customize the master VM's guest Windows operating system (OS) with the third-party applications you want to provide to your end users, as well as configure any OS-level settings such as customized wallpaper, fonts and colors, drivers, and other such items. For steps, see Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating System and Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image. Note: This release supports NVIDIA for RDS-enabled Microsoft Windows Server images only, which means for those master VMs used for RDSH farms. Important: As part of the configuration process, the master VM is joined to your domain. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of local administrator accounts on domain-joined VMs, you will not be able to log in to the master image to customize it until you configure the DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with those domain accounts you want used for customizing the image. For details, see Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. Note: If you manually created the master VM and you want to use User Environment Manager capabilities, you must manually install the User Environment Manager agent into your master VM. See Install the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual Machine. If you used the automated Import Desktop wizard, the User Environment Manager agent is automatically installed by the automated process. When the master VM is visible on the Imported VMs page and the page indicates the agent-related status is active, then you customize the master VM's guest Windows operating system (OS) with the third-party applications you want to provide to your end users, as well as configure any OS-level settings such as customized wallpaper, fonts and colors, drivers, and other such items. For steps, see Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating System and Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master Image. Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating SystemInstall NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master ImageNote:This release supports NVIDIA for RDS-enabled Microsoft Windows Server images only, which means for those master VMs used for RDSH farms. Important:As part of the configuration process, the master VM is joined to your domain. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of local administrator accounts on domain-joined VMs, you will not be able to log in to the master image to customize it until you configure the DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with those domain accounts you want used for customizing the image. For details, see Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported Image. Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageNote:If you manually created the master VM and you want to use User Environment Manager capabilities, you must manually install the User Environment Manager agent into your master VM. See Install the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual Machine. If you used the automated Import Desktop wizard, the User Environment Manager agent is automatically installed by the automated process. User Environment ManagerInstall the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual MachineUser Environment ManagerThen you use the New Image workflow in the Administration Console to convert that master VM to an assignable desktop image. For steps, see Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image. Then you use the New Image workflow in the Administration Console to convert that master VM to an assignable desktop image. For steps, see Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable Image. Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageAfter the master VM is converted, the image's Published status on the Images page indicates Horizon Cloud has sealed the image VM for use in the environment. When you see that the image on the Inventory - Images page displays the Published status, you can create: PublishedHorizon CloudInventory - ImagesPublishedFrom an RDS-enabled Windows Server image, RDSH farms based on that image. You can create both types of farms from the same published RDS-enabled server image: desktop farms to provide session-based desktops and application farms to provide remote applications. When you have a farm, you can use it to make assignments to users. See Farms in Horizon Cloud. From an RDS-enabled Windows Server image, RDSH farms based on that image. You can create both types of farms from the same published RDS-enabled server image: desktop farms to provide session-based desktops and application farms to provide remote applications. When you have a farm, you can use it to make assignments to users. See Farms in Horizon Cloud. Farms in Horizon CloudFrom a Windows client image, VDI desktop assignments based on that image. See Create a Floating VDI Desktop Assignment and Create a Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignment. From a Windows client image, VDI desktop assignments based on that image. See Create a Floating VDI Desktop Assignment and Create a Dedicated VDI Desktop Assignment. Create a Floating VDI Desktop AssignmentCreate a Dedicated VDI Desktop AssignmentCreate a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure MarketplaceFor a node in Microsoft Azure, you can use the Import Desktop wizard to create the master virtual machine (VM) using an operating system image from the Microsoft Azure Marketplace. In the process, the VM is automatically configured with the elements and agent-related software required to conform to the Horizon Cloud environment's requirements. The resulting VM is also joined to your AD domain as part of the automated process. Create a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure MarketplaceCreate a Master Virtual Machine Automatically from the Microsoft Azure MarketplaceHorizon CloudConfigure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageSo that you can customize the master image for your organization's needs, you must be able to remotely connect to and log in to that image's virtual machine located in Microsoft Azure. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of local administrator accounts on domain-joined VMs, you will not be able to log in to the master image until you configure the DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with those domain accounts you want used for customizing the image. Configure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageConfigure the Ability for Domain Accounts to Remote Connect to the Imported ImageCustomize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating SystemAfter the master image virtual machine (VM) is created, but before you convert it into a published image in Horizon Cloud, you customize the VM's guest Windows operating system (OS) to install and configure the things you want and need in the image. Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating SystemCustomize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating SystemHorizon CloudInstall NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master ImageIf you created a master image VM with GPU, you must log into the VM's Windows operating system and install the supported NVIDIA graphics drivers to get the GPU capabilities of that VM. You install the drivers after the VM is created and the Imported VMs page shows the agent-related status is active. Install NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master ImageInstall NVIDIA Graphics Drivers in a GPU-Enabled Master ImageConvert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageTo turn a configured master virtual machine (VM) into an assignable desktop image, use the Image page's New Image workflow. A desktop image must display the Published status on the Images page before the system can use it for assignments. Convert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageConvert a Configured Master Virtual Machine to an Assignable ImageManually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureThese steps are part of the alternative manual method for creating a master virtual machine (VM) for a node in Microsoft Azure. Manually building a master virtual machine (VM) that conforms to the Horizon Cloud environment's requirements is a multi-step process. You perform most of these steps in the Microsoft Azure portal. You first create and configure a base VM, then install agent-related software components into that base VM, and then configure specific properties for those agent-related components. Manually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureManually Build the Master Virtual Machine in Microsoft AzureHorizon CloudInstall the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual MachineIf you manually create a master virtual machine (VM) and you want to use your User Environment Manager environment with the desktop images, you must manually install the User Environment Manager agent into the master VM before converting it to an image. User Environment Manager provides various options for achieving the persistence of end-user data, settings, and profiles of desktops served by your node. Install the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual MachineInstall the User Environment Manager Agent in the Master Virtual MachineUser Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerUser Environment ManagerVMware, Inc x 