VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineWhen Horizon Cloud detects an authentication failure due to a locked primary domain-bind account, a notification is displayed in the Administration Console to alert you to remedy the state of the account. The system uses the primary domain-bind account as a service account to connect to the Active Directory (AD) server and query Active Directory. Horizon CloudEach time an administrator successfully logs in to the Administration Console, the system checks whether the primary domain-bind account is in a failed or inactive state. If the system determines the account is in a failed or inactive state, a notification is created. When the notification is created, it is added to the Notifications page and is reflected in the count on the bell icon located in the upper right corner of the console (). You can read the notification details by clicking the bell icon or by navigating to the Notifications page. Note:The connection state for the connection between the system and the AD server is cached for 15 minutes. As a result, it might take up to 15 minutes from the time the primary domain-bind account goes into a locked-out state until the notification is reflected in the Administration Console. For example, if you log in to the Administration Console, and then manually locked out your primary domain-bind account in your AD server, it might take up to 15 minutes for the notification to display in the console. Similarly, if you see the lockout notification in the console and then fix the account in your AD server, the console might continue to show the account lockout notification for up to 15 minutes after the fix. If the primary domain-bind account becomes locked out, the system falls back to use an active configured auxiliary domain-bind account to authenticate the connection to the Active Directory server. When you see a notification that the primary domain-bind account is locked out, you should take action to remedy the state of the primary domain-bind account to ensure successful system connection continues over time. Parent topic:Troubleshooting for Administrators of Horizon Cloud EnvironmentsVMware, Inc x 