VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineUse the Reports page to access various reports related to end users' desktop and application sessions. Important:The Desktop Health, Utilization, Session History, Concurrency, and Top Applications reports do not reflect user-related data until an hour has passed from the time you deployed your Horizon Cloud node into Microsoft Azure or from the time you enabled monitoring user session information. Horizon CloudIn addition to that one hour elapsed time, four of the reports are updated at specific UTC (Coordinated Universal Time) times: Utilization, Session History, Concurrency, and Top Applications. As a result, those reports might not be populated with information collected during the time since the last UTC update time for that report. For details, see the table below. Select Monitor > Reports to open the Reports page, where you can view detailed information for the following categories. You can also manually refresh this page, filter your search, and export data to a Microsoft Excel worksheet. Monitor > ReportsMonitorReportsNote:If you have disabled monitoring user session information for utilization, trending, and historical analysis, the reports associated with that type of data are disabled and not visible on the Reports page. When that monitoring feature is disabled, the system collects such user session information for a limited period of time and hashes the username to enable real time administration while disabling historical and aggregated viewing of that user information. As a result, the reports that would display historical and aggregated viewing of that data, such as the Session History report, are not available. The Enable User Session Information toggle for enabling or disabling monitoring user session information is located on the General Settings page (Settings > General Settings). Enable User Session InformationSettings > General SettingsSettingsGeneral SettingsReport Type Report Type Details Details User Mapping User Mapping View details and sort by various categories, such as User name, Domain, Desktop Name, Desktop Model, Farm, and Mapping Type (User or Group). Note: This report is populated only for users that have at least one direct assignment to a desktop. In the Administration Console, you can choose individual users or user groups when making a desktop assignment. If a user has at least one assignment done as an individual user and zero or more assignments done as being part of the assigned group, this report reports all of that user's desktop assignments. However, if all of the user's desktop assignments are done using groups, that user's assignments are not reported in this report. If the user is mapped to a desktop as an individual user, the Group Name column is blank. If the user is mapped to a desktop from being a member of a group that is entitled to the desktop assignment, the Group Name column displays the entitled group's name. View details and sort by various categories, such as User name, Domain, Desktop Name, Desktop Model, Farm, and Mapping Type (User or Group). Note:This report is populated only for users that have at least one direct assignment to a desktop. In the Administration Console, you can choose individual users or user groups when making a desktop assignment. If a user has at least one assignment done as an individual user and zero or more assignments done as being part of the assigned group, this report reports all of that user's desktop assignments. However, if all of the user's desktop assignments are done using groups, that user's assignments are not reported in this report. If the user is mapped to a desktop as an individual user, the Group Name column is blank. If the user is mapped to a desktop from being a member of a group that is entitled to the desktop assignment, the Group Name column displays the entitled group's name. Desktop Mapping Desktop Mapping View details and sort by various categories, such as Desktop Name, Model, Assignment Name, Type, Farm, Active User, Mapped Users, and Mapped User Groups. Note: In this report, the Mapped Users column is populated only for dedicated VDI desktop assignments, because for such assignments, each user gets mapped to a specific VDI desktop and returns to that same desktop at each login. That mapped user is the user assigned to that desktop. However, for floating VDI desktop assignments and session desktop assignments that are served by farms, users do not get mapped to specific desktop VMs. As a result, there is not data in the Mapped Users column for those desktop assignment types. View details and sort by various categories, such as Desktop Name, Model, Assignment Name, Type, Farm, Active User, Mapped Users, and Mapped User Groups. Note:In this report, the Mapped Users column is populated only for dedicated VDI desktop assignments, because for such assignments, each user gets mapped to a specific VDI desktop and returns to that same desktop at each login. That mapped user is the user assigned to that desktop. However, for floating VDI desktop assignments and session desktop assignments that are served by farms, users do not get mapped to specific desktop VMs. As a result, there is not data in the Mapped Users column for those desktop assignment types. Desktop Health Desktop Health View list of desktops, which can be filtered by assignment or error status. Click on a desktop to view its real-time desktop health report. For RDS desktops, the report includes CPU usage %, memory usage %, disk IOPS, and active/disconnected sessions. For VDI desktops, the report includes CPU usage %, memory usage %, disk IOPS, duration, bandwidth, and latency. For all desktops, a Desktop Health alert displays when one or more of the following parameters is at or above a set threshold value: CPU usage %, memory usage %, and disk latency. Threshold values are 90% for CPU, 80% for memory usage, and 100ms for disk latency. These parameters are checked every minute, and the alert is triggered when the measurement is at or above the threshold value for 10 consecutive minutes. Note: This report's data is updated every minute by the data from the backend reporting system. View list of desktops, which can be filtered by assignment or error status. Click on a desktop to view its real-time desktop health report. For RDS desktops, the report includes CPU usage %, memory usage %, disk IOPS, and active/disconnected sessions. For RDS desktops, the report includes CPU usage %, memory usage %, disk IOPS, and active/disconnected sessions. For VDI desktops, the report includes CPU usage %, memory usage %, disk IOPS, duration, bandwidth, and latency. For VDI desktops, the report includes CPU usage %, memory usage %, disk IOPS, duration, bandwidth, and latency. For all desktops, a Desktop Health alert displays when one or more of the following parameters is at or above a set threshold value: CPU usage %, memory usage %, and disk latency. Threshold values are 90% for CPU, 80% for memory usage, and 100ms for disk latency. These parameters are checked every minute, and the alert is triggered when the measurement is at or above the threshold value for 10 consecutive minutes. For all desktops, a Desktop Health alert displays when one or more of the following parameters is at or above a set threshold value: CPU usage %, memory usage %, and disk latency. Threshold values are 90% for CPU, 80% for memory usage, and 100ms for disk latency. Threshold values are 90% for CPU, 80% for memory usage, and 100ms for disk latency. These parameters are checked every minute, and the alert is triggered when the measurement is at or above the threshold value for 10 consecutive minutes. These parameters are checked every minute, and the alert is triggered when the measurement is at or above the threshold value for 10 consecutive minutes. Note:This report's data is updated every minute by the data from the backend reporting system. Utilization Utilization View graphs for user and session trends, protocol and client usage, access type (internal or external), session duration, and service type. Can be filtered by assignment and time period. Note: When Enable User Session Information is turned off for your environment, the Unique User Summary feature of this report is not provided. The Enable User Session Information is set in the General Settings page. The backend reporting system sends the data for this report at a specific UTC time: For the selected periods Last 24 hours or Last 1 week, the data is updated hourly. The update starts at 5 minutes past the hour UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. For the other time periods, the data is updated daily. The update starts at 2am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. View graphs for user and session trends, protocol and client usage, access type (internal or external), session duration, and service type. Can be filtered by assignment and time period. Note:When Enable User Session Information is turned off for your environment, the Unique User Summary feature of this report is not provided. The Enable User Session Information is set in the General Settings page. Enable User Session InformationEnable User Session InformationThe backend reporting system sends the data for this report at a specific UTC time: For the selected periods Last 24 hours or Last 1 week, the data is updated hourly. The update starts at 5 minutes past the hour UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. For the selected periods Last 24 hours or Last 1 week, the data is updated hourly. The update starts at 5 minutes past the hour UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. Last 24 hoursLast 1 weekFor the other time periods, the data is updated daily. The update starts at 2am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. For the other time periods, the data is updated daily. The update starts at 2am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. Session History Session History View session information by user, including last login time, session duration, weekly average use, and average session length. Can be filtered by time period. The backend reporting system sends the data for this report daily at a specific UTC time. The update starts at 2:10am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. Due to that update timing, data for sessions that take place after the 2am UTC time point are not reflected in this report until the next day. Note: This report is not provided when Enable User Session Information is turned off for your environment, as set in the General Settings page. View session information by user, including last login time, session duration, weekly average use, and average session length. Can be filtered by time period. The backend reporting system sends the data for this report daily at a specific UTC time. The update starts at 2:10am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. Due to that update timing, data for sessions that take place after the 2am UTC time point are not reflected in this report until the next day. Note:This report is not provided when Enable User Session Information is turned off for your environment, as set in the General Settings page. Enable User Session InformationConcurrency Concurrency View per-assignment data for capacity, number of concurrent users, peak concurrency, and applications in use. Can be filtered by time period. The backend reporting system sends the data for this report daily at a specific UTC time. The update starts at 2am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. Due to that update timing, data for sessions that take place after the 2am UTC time point are not reflected in this report until the next day. View per-assignment data for capacity, number of concurrent users, peak concurrency, and applications in use. Can be filtered by time period. The backend reporting system sends the data for this report daily at a specific UTC time. The update starts at 2am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. Due to that update timing, data for sessions that take place after the 2am UTC time point are not reflected in this report until the next day. Top Applications Top Applications View a list of applications that end users have used in VDI desktops and each application's total usage duration. Can be filtered by assignment and by time period. This data can help you see which are the most used applications in a particular VDI desktop assignment. The backend reporting system sends the data for this report at a specific UTC time: For the selected period Last 24 hours, the data is updated hourly. The update starts at 20 minutes past the hour UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. For the other time periods, the data is updated daily. The update starts at 2:30am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. View a list of applications that end users have used in VDI desktops and each application's total usage duration. Can be filtered by assignment and by time period. This data can help you see which are the most used applications in a particular VDI desktop assignment. The backend reporting system sends the data for this report at a specific UTC time: For the selected period Last 24 hours, the data is updated hourly. The update starts at 20 minutes past the hour UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. For the selected period Last 24 hours, the data is updated hourly. The update starts at 20 minutes past the hour UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. Last 24 hoursFor the other time periods, the data is updated daily. The update starts at 2:30am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. For the other time periods, the data is updated daily. The update starts at 2:30am UTC and takes about 15 minutes to complete. URL Configurations URL Configurations View information for currently configured URL redirects. For more information, see Create a URL Redirection Customization and Assign it to Users. View information for currently configured URL redirects. For more information, see Create a URL Redirection Customization and Assign it to Users. Create a URL Redirection Customization and Assign it to UsersParent topic:About the Monitor IconVMware, Inc x 