VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineSo that you can customize the master image for your organization's needs, you must be able to remotely connect to and log in to that image's virtual machine located in Microsoft Azure. If your organization has a policy that prevents use of local administrator accounts on domain-joined VMs, you will not be able to log in to the master image until you configure the DaaS Direct Connect Users local group with those domain accounts you want used for customizing the image. You connect to the master image VMs in Microsoft Azure using your Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) software. As part of the overall process of creating the master image VM, these items are put in place: The VM is joined to the domain that was specified in the Import Image wizard or when manually creating the master image. The VM is joined to the domain that was specified in the Import Image wizard or when manually creating the master image. The Horizon agent software is installed in the VM's Microsoft Windows operating system. The Horizon agent software is installed in the VM's Microsoft Windows operating system. By default, the agent software prevents using any account to RDP to the VM's guest Microsoft Windows system other than the VM's local administrator account with which the agent software was installed. For example, when you try to RDP to the master VM using a domain administrator account that is a member of the local Administrators group, even though the connection is made initially, as the Microsoft Windows session starts, a message is displayed. The message states that direct connection to your virtual desktop is not allowed. However, some organizations typically have policies that prevent use of the local administrator account on domain-joined VMs. To enable providing domain accounts with the ability to RDP and log in to customize the master VM, installing the agent software also creates a local group named DaaS Direct Connect Users. This group does not have local administration rights. The agent allows domain accounts in this group to connect to the desktop using a direct RDP connection. The DaaS Direct Connect Users group is empty when created. To give the RDP capability to those domain accounts you want used to customize the image, you add those domain users to the DaaS Direct Connect Users local group. The following screenshot is an example showing the DaaS Direct Connect Users group in the Local Users and Groups window on a master image that was created using the Import Image wizard. When you cannot direct connect to the VM using the local administrator account, you use a Group Policy Object (GPO) policy in your Active Directory environment to add domain accounts to the DaaS Direct Connect Users group. The following steps describe using the GPO policy's Restricted Groups - Members Of method for adding members to the DaaS Direct Connect Users group on the domain-joined VM. In your Active Directory environment, create a new GPO. In your Active Directory environment, create a new GPO. Right-click on the GPO and select Edit. Right-click on the GPO and select Edit. EditIn the Group Policy Management Editor, navigate to Computer Configuration > Policies > Windows Settings > Security Settings > Restricted Groups. In the Group Policy Management Editor, navigate to Computer Configuration > Policies > Windows Settings > Security Settings > Restricted Groups. Computer Configuration > Policies > Windows Settings > Security Settings > Restricted GroupsComputer ConfigurationPoliciesWindows SettingsSecurity SettingsRestricted GroupsRight-click Restricted Groups and select Add Group. Right-click Restricted Groups and select Add Group. Restricted GroupsAdd GroupIn the Add Group box, type DaaS Direct Connect Users and click OK. In the Add Group box, type DaaS Direct Connect Users and click OK. OKIn the properties dialog, use the Members of this group area and its Add button to add those domain accounts that you want able to connect to the master VM. In the properties dialog, use the Members of this group area and its Add button to add those domain accounts that you want able to connect to the master VM. Members of this groupAddWhen you are finished adding accounts into the Members of this group area, click OK to close the properties dialog. When you are finished adding accounts into the Members of this group area, click OK to close the properties dialog. Members of this groupOKClose the Group Policy Management Editor and the Group Policy Management Console. Close the Group Policy Management Editor and the Group Policy Management Console. Link the newly created GPO to the same domain that is used for the master VM. Link the newly created GPO to the same domain that is used for the master VM. After the new GPO is linked to the domain, you can use one of those specified domain accounts to RDP to the master VM and customize it. Follow the steps as described in Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating System and its subtopics. Customize the Master Image VM's Windows Operating SystemParent topic:Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureVMware, Inc x 