VMware DocsMyLibrarytimesMyLibraryMyLibraryclose-lineUse the Inventory icon to navigate to pages where you can work with assets that are in your environment's inventory, such as RDSH farms, assignable images and applications, and virtual machines (VMs) that have been imported into your environment. InventoryClick the Inventory icon to navigate to these pages. InventoryOption Option Description Description Applications Applications Opens the Applications page, where you can add applications into your inventory, edit parameters for applications in the inventory, rename applications, and remove applications from the inventory. See Applications in Your Horizon Cloud Inventory. Opens the Applications page, where you can add applications into your inventory, edit parameters for applications in the inventory, rename applications, and remove applications from the inventory. See Applications in Your Horizon Cloud Inventory. Applications in Your Horizon Cloud InventoryFarms Farms Opens the Farms page. See Farms in Horizon Cloud. At a page level, you can: View the RDSH farms available in your environment. Create an RDSH farm. Edit an existing farm Move a farm online or offline Delete a farm When you click the name of a specific farm, you open its details page. From a farm's details page, you can perform actions on that specific farm: Edit various settings, such as the farm's name and its size. Power off and delete the servers in the farm. Work with sessions currently connected to the farm's servers. Examine activity that has taken place in the farm. Opens the Farms page. See Farms in Horizon Cloud. Farms in Horizon CloudAt a page level, you can: View the RDSH farms available in your environment. View the RDSH farms available in your environment. Create an RDSH farm. Create an RDSH farm. Edit an existing farm Edit an existing farm Move a farm online or offline Move a farm online or offline Delete a farm Delete a farm When you click the name of a specific farm, you open its details page. From a farm's details page, you can perform actions on that specific farm: Edit various settings, such as the farm's name and its size. Edit various settings, such as the farm's name and its size. Power off and delete the servers in the farm. Power off and delete the servers in the farm. Work with sessions currently connected to the farm's servers. Work with sessions currently connected to the farm's servers. Examine activity that has taken place in the farm. Examine activity that has taken place in the farm. Images Images Opens the Images page. See Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure and Managing Assignable Images. In this page, you can: View the assignable desktop images available in the system. Create an assignable desktop image from a master VM that has been prepared with the required agents. Download the DaaS bootstrap file. Use the Download Bootstrap button to download an encrypted bootstrap file for you to deploy to your images. When you select this option, you are prompted to enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Refresh the DaaS bootstrap password. Use the Refresh Password button to refresh a previously set DaaS bootstrap password. Note: If you refresh the password after having downloaded a bootstrap file but before applying the bootstrap file using the Keytool utility, then the resultant agents will not be able to pair. Therefore, it is recommended that you download the bootstrap file again after refreshing the password. When you select the check box for a specific listed assignable image, or click its name, you can perform the following actions on it: Duplicate it. Delete it. Update its agent-related software, if a later version is available. Opens the Images page. See Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft Azure and Managing Assignable Images. Creating Desktop Images for a Horizon Cloud Node in Microsoft AzureManaging Assignable ImagesIn this page, you can: View the assignable desktop images available in the system. View the assignable desktop images available in the system. Create an assignable desktop image from a master VM that has been prepared with the required agents. Create an assignable desktop image from a master VM that has been prepared with the required agents. Download the DaaS bootstrap file. Use the Download Bootstrap button to download an encrypted bootstrap file for you to deploy to your images. When you select this option, you are prompted to enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Download the DaaS bootstrap file. Use the Download Bootstrap button to download an encrypted bootstrap file for you to deploy to your images. When you select this option, you are prompted to enter a password of 8-20 ASCII characters containing at least one each of the following: lowercase letter, uppercase letter, number, and symbol (!@#$%^&*). Do not use non-ASCII characters in the password. Download BootstrapRefresh the DaaS bootstrap password. Use the Refresh Password button to refresh a previously set DaaS bootstrap password. Note: If you refresh the password after having downloaded a bootstrap file but before applying the bootstrap file using the Keytool utility, then the resultant agents will not be able to pair. Therefore, it is recommended that you download the bootstrap file again after refreshing the password. Refresh the DaaS bootstrap password. Use the Refresh Password button to refresh a previously set DaaS bootstrap password. Refresh PasswordNote:If you refresh the password after having downloaded a bootstrap file but before applying the bootstrap file using the Keytool utility, then the resultant agents will not be able to pair. Therefore, it is recommended that you download the bootstrap file again after refreshing the password. KeytoolWhen you select the check box for a specific listed assignable image, or click its name, you can perform the following actions on it: Duplicate it. Duplicate it. Delete it. Delete it. Update its agent-related software, if a later version is available. Update its agent-related software, if a later version is available. Imported VMs Imported VMs Opens the Imported VMs page. The virtual machines (VMs) displayed on this page include: The master VMs that you created using the Import action button. VMs that the system imported from the nodes' nodeID-base-vms resource groups. You can move VMs from this page to the Utility VMs page, according to your organization's needs. See Imported VMs Page for details. Opens the Imported VMs page. The virtual machines (VMs) displayed on this page include: The master VMs that you created using the Import action button. The master VMs that you created using the Import action button. ImportVMs that the system imported from the nodes' nodeID-base-vms resource groups. VMs that the system imported from the nodes' nodeID-base-vms resource groups. nodeIDYou can move VMs from this page to the Utility VMs page, according to your organization's needs. See Imported VMs Page for details. Imported VMs PageImported VMs PageThe Imported VMs page in the Administration Console lists the virtual machines (VMs) that have been brought into your Horizon Cloud environment. Imported VMs PageImported VMs PageHorizon CloudParent topic:About Menu Selections in the Administration ConsoleVMware, Inc x 